


Or: How To Philosophise With A





Of Swords and Ploughshares
The inaugural Bayreuth Festival in the summer of 1876 was a huge disappoint-
ment to Nietzsche. At Malwida von Meysenbug’s instigation (KGB II/61 , 361)
he left Basel before the end of the university term and arrived in Bayreuth on
23 July, a full three weeks before the first public performance of Wagner’s Ring
was scheduled to begin, in order to attend some of the rehearsals1 . He might
     reasonably have expected to be given something of a hero’s welcome, for after more
     than a year’s gestation the fourth of his Untimely Meditations, Richard Wagner
     in Bayreuth, had finally made its timely appearance two weeks before, sealing his
     reputation as one of the foremost Wagnerian adjutants in the German-speaking
     world. Instead, things rapidly went awry: he saw little of Wagner and in general
     remained on the margins of the event, attending barely a week of rehearsals before
     making a precipitate escape and vowing not to return.
The proximate cause of his departure was ill health, but as several commentators
     have pointed out, his afflictions — eye trouble, headaches and general lassitude


         1. Sources vary on the exact chronology of Nietzsche’s movements during this period. R.J.
     Hollingdale has him arriving in Bayreuth on 24 July (Nietzsche: The Man and his Philosophy,
     2nd edn (London, Boston and Henley: Ark, 1985), 104), and his arrival is not recorded in Cosima
     Wagner’s diary till that date (see Nietzsche und Wagner. Stationen einer epochalen Begegnung,
     ed, 2 vols (Frankfurt a.M. and Leipzig: Insel, 1994), II,
     1194), although letter to his sister of 25 July, implies an
     arrival two days before, and 23 July is the date on which all German biographical sources agree
     (see Karl Schlechta  (Munich and Vienna: Hanser,
     1975), 56. Biographie, 3 vols (Munich and Vienna: Hanser,
     1978-79), I: 715; Giorgio Colli and Mazzino Montinari,  (KSA 15,
     7-210), 69; (Frankfurt a.M. and Berlin, 1993), 272).
     Ronald Hayman: A Critical Life (London: Quartet, 1981), 186f.) gives 23 July as the
     date of’s departure from Basel, and has him arriving in Bayreuth as late as “Monday
     the 29th ”, which is clearly a mistake, for not only was 29 July a Saturday, but Hayman himself
     (Hayman, 187) quotes two of letters to his sister from Bayreuth, which are
     correctly dated 25 and 28 July (Elisabeth had conveniently postdated them for her edition).



     — were clearly psychosomatic in origin2 . His pride was no doubt injured at his
     relatively off-hand treatment by Wagner, but his marginalisation had been largely
     self-imposed, for his disaffection with the Wagnerian enterprise had already been
     mounting for some time: in completing Richard Wagner in Bayreuth he had
     suppressed the more critical comments on the composer which he had confided to
     his notebooks, and Bayreuth itself merely vindicated his misgivings. As he himself
     would later explain in Ecce Homo, he was revolted by the air of show-business
     razzamatazz which surrounded the whole event, by the ringmaster-impresario side
     to Wagner’s character which it brought out, and above all by the fawning and
     pandering of the (other) Wagnerians (eKGWB/EH-MA-2).

   “I have had enough of it all!” he wrote to his sister on 1 August, the day after he
     had been forced to leave a rehearsal of The Valkyrie early because he could no longer
     actually see the singers on stage. “I do not even want to be at the first performance
     — but somewhere else, anywhere but here, where it is nothing but torment for
     me. [...] I want to get away into the Fichtelgebirge or some other place”3 . Shortly
     afterwards he set off more or less “blindly” out of Bayreuth, but went rather further
     than the adjacent Fichtelgebirge, travelling over 100 miles to the south-east in
     search of a place of recuperation. He revisited the Bavarian Forest, an area he had
     explored with his friend Erwin Rohde on a walking holiday nine years previously —
     before he had met Wagner or been “converted” to Wagner’s music — and ended up
     at the Gasthaus zum Ludwigsstein in the small village of Klingenbrunn near Regen,
     a few miles from the Bohemian border4 . Although did not actually
     leave Germany, then, he came as close to doing so as he could manage, physically
     assuming a marginal position where he could turn to reflect on the Germans he had
     left behind. It is ironic that should have written to his sister “now I am
     in m y element” from Bayreuth (eKGWB/BVN-1876,546), for it is in Klingenbrunn
     that he evidently found his true element — alone, high up among the woods and
     mountains, away from the hum of flattery and gossip. Here he wrote to his sister
     again, on 6 August, commenting: “The place is very good: thick forest and the air
     of the heights, like in the Jura” (eKGWB/BVN-1876,547).

See, for example, Walter Kaufmann: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, 3rd
     ed. (New York: Vintage, 1968), 37; Hollingdale, Nietzsche, 106; Janz, Friedrich Nietzsche, I: 716.
         3. Friedrich Nietzsche, Selected Letters of Friedrich Nietzsche, ed. and trans. Christopher
     Middleton (Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1969)
     1876,546.
         4. His diary of the earlier trip, in August 1867 (erroneously predated to August 1866 by
     Hollingdale, Nietzsche, 44), is reproduced in Hans Joachim Mette, Karl Schlechta and Carl Koch,
     ed. Friedrich Nietzsche. Frühe Schriften, 5 vols (Munich: Beck, 1994), III: 280-90. Klingenbrunn
     is not mentioned here, although it is conceivable that Nietzsche and Rohde passed through it,
     for they did visit the nearby towns of Zwiesel and Regen (Mette, Schlechta and Koch, Friedrich
     Nietzsche, III: 283). In Regen, indeed, Nietzsche’s attention was caught by a grotesque emblem
     bearing the Delphic inscription “nosce te ipsum” (“know thyself”), which he sketched in his
     notebook at the time (Mette, Schlechta and Koch, Friedrich Nietzsche, III: 288), and which could
     stand as a suitable motto for his 1876 visit.


6.       In Bayreuth Nietzsche had been all at sea5 , so it is not surprising that he should
     have reacted against his experience there by seeking to “ground” himself in this
     way, retiring into the woods in order to recover his equilibrium like a latter-day
     “Iron John”. And he was certainly successful in this: he stayed in Klingenbrunn for
     just over a week (before being coaxed back to Bayreuth by his sister in time to
     attend the whole of the first Ring cycle)6 , and during his time there he recovered
     his health sufficiently to mark his convalescence in the only way he knew, by going
     on the offensive in writing. In the Preface to Twilight of the Idols, Nietzsche would
     explicitly refer to that later book as a work of “recuperation,” describing it as
     both “a sideways leap into the idleness of a psychologist” and “a great declaration
     of war”, but his recuperation strategy in Klingenbrunn (where he made a literal
     “sideways leap”) was no different. He spent the majority of his time walking in the
     woods and jotting down notes, laying the groundwork for what would ultimately
     become Human, All Too Human — a radical departure from his previous published
     works, in which he finally threw off the Wagnerian mantle.
7.       In Ecce Homo Nietzsche refers to his “crossing swords” with Wagner on the
     completion of Human, All Too Human in 1878 (eKGWB/EH-MA-5), but what
     ended up as a sword began life, perhaps surprisingly, as a ploughshare, as Ecce
     Homo also reveals:
8.       At a place deeply buried in the Bohemian Forest, Klingenbrunn, I bore my melancholy
         and contempt for Germans about with me like an illness — a n d wrote a sentence
         in my pocket-book from time to time under the general title “The Ploughshare” [Die
         Pflugschar], nothing but h a r d psychologica which can perhaps still be rediscovered in
         “Human, All Too Human” (eKGWB/EH-MA-2; cf. KSA 14, 490 and 493)7 .

9.      In Ecce Homo Nietzsche gives no further indication as to why he should have
     chosen “The Ploughshare” for his provisional title: not only does he eventually not
     use it for Human, All Too Human, but this is the only reference in his published
     writings to any plan to call the book by that name — it is not mentioned, for
     example, in either of the 1886 Prefaces to its second edition — and he does not
     actually use it for any of his published works. In this Ecce Homo passage he explains


         5. “It was as if I had been dreaming ... Where was I? I recognised nothing, I hardly
     recognised Wagner. In vain I scanned my memories. Tribschen — a distant isle of the blessed”,
     eKGWB/EH-MA-2. He would later write of Wagner’s music itself as inducing a sensation of
     “swimming, floating”, eKGWB/VM-134; eKGWB/NW-Gefahr-1: see my article “‘The Freest
     Writer’: Nietzsche on Sterne”, The Shandean, 7 (November 1995): 9-29.
         6. Again, the exact chronology is difficult to determine: Nietzsche himself writes of having
     absented himself from Bayreuth “for a couple of weeks”, eKGWB/EH-MA-2, but this is clearly
     too long, since all sources agree that he returned to Bayreuth on 12 August. On the other hand
     Colli and Montinari’s “Chronik” has Nietzsche in Klingenbrunn 6-12 August (KSA 15, 69), which
     would seem to be too short. Nietzsche’s letter to his sister from Klingenbrunn was the only
     one he wrote there and gives no clear indication of when he arrived; Hollingdale writes of him
     leaving Bayreuth “[o]n the 2nd or 3rd August” and in Klingenbrunn “for ten days” (Hollingdale,
     Nietzsche, 104); Janz (Janz, Friedrich Nietzsche, I: 715) and Hayman (Hayman, Nietzsche, 188)
     have him leaving for Klingenbrunn “on the 3rd or 4th ”; Schlechta plumps for 4 August (Schlechta,
     Nietzsche-Chronik, 56).
                  Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                              Duncan Large


      the choice of title by highlighting the ploughshare’s hardness, thus allying it with
      his other images of hardness such as granite and ice, the hammer of Twilight (“aere
      perennius”), and above all the diamond in Thus Spoke Zarathustra, whose motto is
      “become hard!” (eKGWB/Za-III-Tafeln-29; cf. eKGWB/GD-Alten-Hammer). Yet
      in another respect the ploughshare would seem an unlikely and highly unpromising
      image for Nietzsche to adopt, for — in Judaeo-Christian culture, at least — it
      serves as the symbol of peace par excellence, and it would thus seem perverse for
      Nietzsche to begin wielding it as his preferred implement at precisely the time
      when he was beginning to make war on his previous beliefs and values. Nietzsche
      himself evidently considered “Klingenbrunn” to be a major turning-point in his
      life: in his later accounts it is always cited as the origin of Human, All Too Human
      8
        , and the momentousness of the change that took place there — not “just” the
      genesis of a book, but a break with all that had gone before9 — is sufficient for
      the Bavarian/Bohemian Forest10 to achieve the same status in Nietzsche’s personal
      geographical pantheon as the shore of Lake Silvaplana, the site of his 1881 epiphany
      which marked the conception, “6,000 feet above Bayreuth” (eKGWB/EH-Weise-4),
      of his “favourite son” Thus Spoke Zarathustra. In this context it would appear all
      the more puzzling that Nietzsche should initially choose for his radical new work
      such a low-key title, and one freighted with such unwelcome irenic connotations.
       My aim in this essay is to explore the derivation and subsequent fate of the
      ploughshare image in Nietzsche’s writings, for although he did not ultimately
      use “The Ploughshare” as the title for any of his published works, as a projected
      title it enjoys a surprising longevity in his notebooks and maintains a (suitably)
      subterranean existence there for several years after 1876, while the ploughshare
      as motif also surfaces in his published works of this period, up to and including
      Thus Spoke Zarathustra. An analysis of Nietzsche’s use of the term will lead in
      two directions, for not only does it need to be placed in the context of his other
      agricultural metaphors, but it will also require us to consider his relation to German


           8. The following year (Spring-Summer 1877) he writes a poem reflecting back over the stages
      of the book’s completion, which begins: “In the Bavarian Forest did it begin”, eKGWB/NF-
      1877,22[80], and the account given in Ecce Homo is in all essentials identical to that given in a
      letter Nietzsche wrote to Mathilde Maier on 15 July 1878, shortly after the book’s publication, in
      which he claims to have written “the first sketch, about a third of my book” in Klingenbrunn,
      eKGWB/BVN-1878,734.
           9. In Ecce Homo, eKGWB/EH-MA-3, and in the later Prefaces to Human, All Too Human
      itself, Nietzsche presents the book as a memorial to an immense act of self-overcoming which goes
      far beyond the more local impetus of his falling out with Wagner, and these implications were not
      lost on him at the time of its composition. In a note from Spring-Summer 1878 he writes: “In
      the Bohemian Forest I overcame the phase” (KSA 8, 498), the “phase” in question being what
      he refers to in a postcard to Mathilde Maier, 6 August 1878 as the
      ten-year phase of his early philosophical activity (and especially his involvement with Wagner),
      now seen as a period of self-alienation.
         10. Nietzsche uses “Böhmerwald” and “Bairischer Wald” interchangeably: the former is the
      name for the large area of elevated woodland which spans the borders between present-day
      Germany, Austria, Czech Republic and Slovakia; the latter refers to the part included within
      German territory.

      literature. Nietzsche was of course quite intentionally “perverting” Judaeo-Christian
      culture by adopting the ploughshare image at this time, yet — as his notebooks
      reveal — it was not the Bible but a medieval German poem that inspired him to
      choose it.

      2. “Farm with the Plough!”
11.       Nietzsche’s immediate plans on completing Richard Wagner in Bayreuth had
      been to continue the Untimely Meditations series for which, since 1873, he had
      been aiming to write (varying sets of) thirteen volumes11 . The next volume was to
      have been called “Der Freigeist” (“The Free Spirit” — NF-1876,16[11]),
      and his notes from the early summer of 1876, pre-Bayreuth, are clearly written
      with this title in mind, as are the notes from
      October 1876 and beyond. In between, however, an
      alternative title emerges for the first time at the very end of notebook U II 5b
      (Summer 1876): “The Ploughshare: A Guide [Anleitung] to Spiritual Liberation”
      , and the following notebook
      — dictated in the September to Peter Gast in Basel, on Nietzsche’s return from
      Bayreuth — is then simply entitled “The Ploughshare”. It begins with a quotation
      in epigraph, which helps explain the choice of title:
12.       “If you would follow me, farm with the plough! Then many will benefit [geniessen]
          by you — the poor man and the rich man will certainly benefit by you; the wolf
          and the eagle will benefit by you and indeed all creatures will benefit by you”. Meier
          Helmbrecht. 
13.        Meier Helmbrecht is a character in an eponymous narrative poem written c.
      1260-70, in Middle High German, by an author known simply as Wernher der
      Gartenære12 . There is no evidence, however, to suggest that Nietzsche read the
      poem himself, for this quotation first appears in his writings some seven years
      earlier, in the Autumn of 1869, when he notes it while reading a long critical
      essay on motifs in German folk poetry by the Swabian poet, politician and literary
      historian Ludwig Uhland (1787-1862). Uhland devotes one section of his study to
      analysing folk songs which represent the country practice of propitiating birds and
      other animals by sacrificing to them parts of the harvest or kill (an extension of
      the — biblically sanctioned — practice by which reapers leave a portion of their
      fields to human gleaners), and it is here that he quotes the Helmbrecht passage, as
      an isolated fragment, by way of illustration, emphasising the words “the wolf and


         11. See Friedrich Nietzsche, Philosophy and Truth: Selections from Nietzsche’s Notebooks of
      the early 1870’s, ed. and trans. Daniel Breazeale (Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press
      International, 1979), 162-165,
         12. This dating of the poem is by Charles E. Gough (“Introduction”, in Charles E. Gough, ed.
      Meier Helmbrecht (Oxford: Blackwell, 1942), xii). The meaning of “Gartenære” is (also) disputed:
      although “Gardener” (“Gärtner” in New High German, the modern standard language) would be
      highly appropriate, Gough (p. xxiii) argues plausibly that it indicates Wernher hailed from the
      region of Garda (“Garten” in Middle High German).
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                               Duncan Large


      the eagle will benefit by you” and commenting: “Should this be only a manner of
      speaking, nevertheless it must originally have been an essential attribute of the
      man of honour to share his earthly blessings even with the wolf and the eagle”13 .
      The Helmbrecht quotation was one of only seven passages in Uhland’s sizeable work
      which appealed to Nietzsche enough for him to note it down: it appears in his 1869
      notebook prefaced by a paraphrase of Uhland’s gloss — “Finest German quotation
      designating the man of honour” — and slightly banalised by a mistranscription
      . Since the version of the quotation in Nietzsche’s 1876
      notebook is transcribed correctly, he seems to have gone back to Uhland in order
      to note it again: why, then, did he return to this passage seven years on?
14.        With the benefit of hindsight, we can see that certain features of the Helmbrecht
      passage would obviously have appealed to him. The ploughman is traditionally
      figured as a hard-working, benignly productive figure with a noble lineage dating
      right back, in ancient Greek myth, to Dionysus himself15 . As a “Meier”, Helmbrecht
      is no mere peasant but a superior kind of farmer, the steward of a nobleman’s
      estate, so Nietzsche finds no difficulty in following Uhland by emphasising the man’s
      honour: he is the type of integrity and virtue, whose “natural nobility” expresses
      itself in his acting according to a principle of generosity towards all living creatures
      which we might perhaps see as a forerunner of the bestowing virtue in Zarathustra
      16
         . Further prefigurations of Zarathustra can be noted en passant: Helmbrecht is
      speaking to a potential f o l l o w e r (his son, as Uhland explains in his introduction
      to the passage), and one of the two animals which the poet specifies will in time
      become Zarathustra’s intimate companion


         13. A. von Keller, W.L. Holland and F. Pfeiffer, ed. Uhlands Schriften zur Geschichte der
      Dichtung und Sage, 8 vols, III: Ludwig Uhland, Alte hoch- und niederdeutsche Volkslieder mit
      Abhandlung und Anmerkungen. Zweiter Band: Abhandlung (Stuttgart: Cotta, 1866), 72.
         14. Nietzsche substitutes a second “certainly” (“sicherlich”) for the “indeed” (“durchaus”) of
      the final line. It should also be noted that he copies down the passage in Uhland’s (archaising)
      New High German translation, ignoring the Middle High German original given in an endnote
      (159, n. 103).
         15. See J.G. Frazer, The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion (London: Macmillan,
      1963), 510: “there are indications, few but significant, that Dionysus was conceived as a deity
      of agriculture and the corn. He is spoken of as himself doing the work of a husbandman: he is
      reported to have been the first to yoke oxen to the plough, which before had been dragged by
      hand alone [...]. Thus guiding the ploughshare and scattering the seed as he went, Dionysus is
      said to have eased the labour of the husbandman.”
         16. The passage’s insistence on the word “geniessen” suggests two other aspects potentially
      appealing to Nietzsche, although they hinge on different interpretations of its meaning. First,
      in modern (New High) German the word simply means “enjoy”, and the passage would thus
      accord well with the mood of Nietzsche’s “Gay/Joyful Science”, although Uhland’s use of the
      term as a NHG “translation” of MHG “geniezen” is questionable, for the latter term was more
      closely related than its modern counterpart to notions of “utility” or “profit” (NHG “Nutzen”).
      Second, Gough (Gough, Meier Helmbrecht, 25 n.) gives “the sense of the passage” as: “Plenty of
      people will be friendly to you”, which would have obvious identificatory appeal to a Nietzsche
      just beginning to “plough his lonely furrow” and placing increasing emphasis, in his isolation,
      on the value of friendship (see my article “Proust on Nietzsche: The Question of Friendship”,
      Modern Language Review, 88/3 (July 1993): 612624).
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                         Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


15.       In a number of other respects, though, this is an odd passage for Nietzsche to
      alight on. In his introduction to the quotation, Uhland characterises the poem
      as “a thorough representation of folk life [des Volkslebens]” — a subject for which
      Nietzsche will otherwise have little interest — and despite Helmbrecht’s relatively
      high status among the agrarian classes, the tone of his speech is egalitarian: his
      principle of generosity is precisely not Zarathustra’s, for the (digger-)ploughman is
      a u n i v e r s a l b e n e f a c t o r much more akin to St Francis or St Anthony than to
      Nietzsche’s illustrious mouthpiece in his book “For Everyone and No One”17 . The
      broader context in which Uhland quotes the passage (and which Nietzsche fails to
      note) is a discussion of superstitions in folk poetry, and Helmbrecht’s words are
      quoted as an instance of the persistence of this mode of thinking. In Nietzsche’s
      terms the ploughman is decidedly “this side of good and evil” for, on Uhland’s
      interpretation, he makes a sacrifice to the predatory wolf and eagle because of the
      evil spirits they embody, and this ill accords with the new style of philosophising
      Nietzsche will come to advocate in the opening sections of Human, All Too Human,
      his rejection of superstition (cf. e.g. eKGWB/MA-4) and conversion to a philosophy
      modelled on the natural sciences (eKGWB/MA-1).

16.       What is problematic about Nietzsche’s use of the Helmbrecht passage on a more
      general level is its “semantic field”: the agricultural. Agriculture may connote
      “closeness to the earth”, and thus appropriately represent Nietzsche’s reaction
      against Schopenhauerian metaphysics and (Schopenhauero-)Wagnerian aesthetics,
      but it also — highly inappropriately — connotes constancy and reliability, the
      unchanging, unheroic life of the farmer rooted in a “native soil”, in other words
      precisely the kind of domesticated existence which would appeal to a later ideology
      of “blood and soil”, and the very opposite of the liberation Nietzsche wishes it to
      portray. His self-representations from this point onwards are more characteristically
      on the move, whether through the air — Prince Vogelfrei, Zarathustra’s eagle,
      Zarathustra himself (eKGWB/Za-II-Bildung) — over uncharted “new seas”18 , or
      over land, which they roam as wanderers and mountain-climbers, restless, rootless
      and displaced. Zarathustra’s favoured terrain will be mountains and forests19 —
      he has a positive dislike for flatlands20 — and his life of aristocratic idleness will


          17. Gough sees Helmbrecht senior as the author’s mouthpiece in the poem, and cites this
      same passage as evidence that Wernher was a member of the Franciscan order, commenting that
      it is “almost inexplicable, except when uttered by a follower of St. Francis, to whom the wolf, the
      bird, even fire itself, were Brother Wolf, Sister Bird and Brother Fire” (Gough, Meier Helmbrecht,
      xx).
          18. See my article “Nietzsche and the Figure of Columbus”, Nietzsche-Studien, 24 (1995):
      162183.
          19. See eKGWB/Za-I-Keuschheit (“I love the forest”); eKGWB/Za-IV-Koenige-1 (“Zarathus-
      tra [...] his mountains and forests”); eKGWB/Za-IV-Zauberer-2 (“my forests and cliffs”).
          20. “I am a wanderer and a mountain-climber (he said to his heart), I do not like the plains
      and it seems I cannot sit still for long”, eKGWB/Za-III-Wanderer. See also Nietzsche’s later
      characterisations of Germany as “Europe’s flatland”, eKGWB/GD-Deutsche-3; eKGWB/EH-
      Bücher-2; eKGWB/NW-Vorwort, and eKGWB/FW-Vorspiel-6: “Do not stay in the field! / Nor
      climb out of sight. / The best view of the world / Is from a medium height”.
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                           Duncan Large


      recreate the Edenic existence of “quiet fruitfulness” (eKGWB/MA-240) which
      preceded the Fall into agricultural labour and the Labour Movement (“When
      Adam delved and Eve span, / Who was then the gentleman?”). When Nietzsche
      does write of farming life it is predominantly pastoral rather than arable farming
      that furnishes him with his images — setting aside his frequent references to herd
      animals, his vision of Arcadia (eKGWB/WS-295) is an Alpine version of Poussin,
      while in the “Idylls from Messina” and “Songs of Prince Vogelfrei” he reaches back
      to Theocritus. When he does occasionally use the image of ploughing in the period
      before 1876, it is in a pejorative context: ploughing is a down-to-earth and “boring”
      activity, associated with the scholar-ox by contrast with the genius (eKGWB/DS-8;
      cf. eKGWB/NF-1875,5[17]; eKGWB/NF-1876,21[57).
17.        In 1876, then, Nietzsche seems suddenly to revalue the activity of ploughing and
      the peasant life in general, adopting the words of a moralistic farmer, the traditional
      exemplar of conformity to tradition, at the very point when he departs from the
      traditions he himself has hitherto known. These unusual features are only amplified
      if one examines the poem Meier Helmbrecht and the point in the action where this
      speech occurs. Although he is celebrated in the poem’s title, Meier Helmbrecht is in
      fact only a secondary figure in the poem, which concentrates instead on Helmbrecht
      junior, the farmer’s son. Dissatisfied with his lot, this “stupid fool” (l. 197) gets
      ideas above his station (symbolised by an impossibly elaborate cap) and heads
      off to court, but he never arrives there, for he falls in with a band of robbers and
      takes to the lawless life with enthusiasm, before coming gruesomely unstuck at the
      end of the tale. As Charles E. Gough writes: “The aim of the poem is to show by
      the terrible example of young Helmbrecht the need of discipline in the home and
      to teach the growing generation to do its duty in life, however uncongenial this
      might seem to be”21 . The words Uhland quotes, and which so captured Nietzsche’s
      imagination, are spoken by Helmbrecht père to the wayward son immediately before
      his departure from the parental farmstead (ll. 544-50), and the point is that these
      words are precisely i g n o r e d by the antihero son, to his eventual cost. “Spare me
      the sermon” (l. 561f.) says Helmbrecht junior as he scornfully rejects his father’s
      admonitions and formally renounces the life of the plough (l. 571): the whole poem
      is a kind of secularised sermon which ensures that the uppity peasant receives his
      come-uppance, and this is the Oedipal confrontation at its core. A knowledge of
      the poem only underlines the fact that there is something curiously nostalgic about
      Nietzsche’s use of the particular passage he quotes. Instead of perhaps identifying
      with the Godless, criminal son who ignores his father’s words and abandons his
      parents, multiply transgressing the medieval moral order, Nietzsche associates
      himself with Helmbrecht senior; at the point where he is loosing his ties to his own
      spiritual father, Wagner, he adopts the father’s warning as a motto.
18.        Let us also, finally, note the circumstances in which the Helmbrecht passage
      first came to Nietzsche’s attention. In October 1869 he was in the middle of
      preparations for his projected essay on “Socrates and Greek Music Drama” (which


        21. Gough, Meier Helmbrecht, xvi.
                 Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                         Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


      would eventually become The Birth of Tragedy), and he read Uhland with an eye to
      parallels and contrasts between German folk poetry and Greek drama — noting the
      similarity, for example, between the historical St Vitus’s dancers and “the orgiastic
      processions of Dionysus” (eKGWB/NF-1869,1[1]). Uhland’s literary history was,
      however, only one of a number of works on the subject which he read at this time,
      during his first year in Basel — a period in which he showed a greater interest
      in German literary history than at any other stage after his schooldays, precisely
      because of his involvement with the Wagners. Richard Wagner had ransacked with
      impunity the treasure-house of German(ic) medieval history and legend in order to
      furnish patriotic plots for the majority of his mature music-dramas22 , and in his
      own way Nietzsche, too, turned to German literary history with a specific personal
      purpose in mind. Unlike Wagner, though, who plunged back into the medieval
      poem Lohengrin for his music-drama of that name, or for the Ring adapted material
      from the Middle High German Nibelungenlied, Old Norse Eddic poems and much
      else besides, Nietzsche’s was quintessentially a scholar’s solution: he read secondary
      works on the subject by writers such as Uhland, Wackernagel and Gervinus23 . The
      more or less thinly veiled nationalism of all these works24 chimed with Nietzsche’s
      own nationalistic sentiments at the time (i.e. before the foundation of the Reich),
      which had only been reinforced by his contact with the Wagners: his gloss on
      the Helmbrecht passage as the “finest German quotation designating the man of
      honour” conveniently glosses over the fact (which Uhland points out) that Wernher
      der Gartenære was an Austrian.


19.       Not only is the Helmbrecht quotation redolent of conservative values, then, not
      only is it puzzling that Nietzsche should delve back into the past to resurrect as his
      new motto a quotation from a medieval poem which he had first noted seven years
      previously, but it would also have reminded him of precisely those aspects of his
      past which he now wanted to throw off, namely his life as a university professor,
      his nationalism, and above all his period under Wagner’s sway (in his own terms,
      his existence as a scholarly ox under the Wagnerian yoke). In 1876 he might have
      been seeking to “plough under” the previous ten years of his intellectual life, but
      in order to do so he first retrieved his implement from the dung.


         22. See Volker Mertens, “Wagner’s Middle Ages”, trans. Stewart Spencer, in Wagner Handbook,
      ed. Ulrich Müller, Peter Wapnewski and John Deathridge (Cambridge, MA and London: Harvard
      University Press, 1992), 236-268.
         23. He borrowed Wilhelm Wackernagel’s Geschichte der deutschen Literatur from Basel
      University Library in October 1869 (and later acquired for his personal library an 1873 edition
      of the Abhandlungen zur deutschen Literaturgeschichte, from which he quotes with approval
      at UM, II, 8); in November 1869 he borrowed the first volume of Georg Gottfried Gervinus,
      Deutsche Dichtung. See Max Oehler, Nietzsches Bibliothek (Weimar: Gesellschaft der Freunde
      des Nietzsche-Archivs, 1942), 35, 46.
         24. See Michael S. Batts, A History of Histories of German Literature, 1835-1914 (Montreal
      and Kingston: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 1993). On Wackernagel, for example, Batts
      comments: “the most remarkable feature of this work is the concept [...] of Germany’s role as
      world leader” (Batts, A History, 41f.).
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                               Duncan Large


      3. Agros as Agon

20.       The Helmbrecht quotation had some decidedly unpromising credentials from
      Nietzsche’s point of view, but we have yet to examine what he actually made of
      it: in particular, we have yet to take account of the fact that although he uses
      the ploughman’s speech for the epigraph to his 1876 notebook, the notebook is
      actually entitled “The Ploughshare”, and it is on this image that he focuses from
      the first, rather than on the ploughman, his oxen or his plough. This focus is
      already a development away from Helmbrecht — Nietzsche is already making the
      quotation his own, using it for his own purposes — for not only is a ploughshare
      not mentioned in the quotation Uhland gives, or in his contextualising gloss; the
      word does not occur in the poem at all.
21.       By narrowing down his focus to the ploughshare and “liberating” it from the
      plough, prising it from the ploughman’s grasp, Nietzsche immediately dissociates
      the image from many of its traditional connotations. Specifically, the ploughman’s
      orderly furrows have a long association in Western culture not only with the
      “rectilinear” moral rectitude of a Meier Helmbrecht or Piers the Ploughman, but also
      with writing, from the ox’s head of the Semitic a l e p h and the b o u s t r o p h e d o n
      writing style of the ancient Greeks through to the medieval commonplace of the
      pen as plough, exemplified most strikingly in Johannes von Tepl’s early fifteenth-
      century dialogue Der Ackermann aus Böhmen (“The Ploughman from Bohemia”)25 .
      Nietzsche has no desire to be “Der Ackermann aus dem Böhmerwald”, however —
      he also refuses to be Wagner’s Ackermann/Eckermann26 — for his wish is to dance
      with the ploughshare-pen. In his hands, then, the ploughshare begins to acquire a
      new panoply of associations27 .
22.       The ploughshare motif acts as a frame to the “Ploughshare” notebook of
      September 1876: after the initial quotation from Helmbrecht, Nietzsche continues
      with a wide-ranging series of sixty paragraphs in which the theme of ploughing is
      left almost entirely behind28 , before returning at the close of the notebook to give
      an extended gloss on its title:


         25. The “ploughman” is in fact a clerk. See the opening of the third chapter: “I am called
      a ploughman; my plough is of bird’s plumage and I live in Bohemia” (Johannes von Tepl, Der
      Ackermann und der Tod, 2nd ed., ed. Felix Genzmer (Stuttgart: Reclam, 1984), 6).
         26. See Avital Ronell, Dictations: On Haunted Writing (Lincoln and London: University
      of Nebraska Press, 1986), 77: “Eckermann, namely, as his name promises, acts not only in his
      capacity as husbandman or ‘Ackermann’ whose labor is to break and prepare the ground for
      receiving the seed — he is not only charged with assuring fertilization — but he is, too (as the
      etymology of the Ecke suggests), a ‘supplementary man,’ one eking out an existence by writing”.
         27. At this stage one should perhaps point out one of the associations denied to Nietzsche
      in German: whereas the modification of “-shear” to “-share” in the English word “ploughshare”
      allows it to be easily construed as a “beneficent” (“apportioning”) cutting implement, the German
      word (“Pflugschar”) affords no such opportunities.
         28. The only exception here is paragraph 18 [29], which muses on the more profound effect
      art has on one in love than on one in a contemplative state: “It seems as though the will must be
      ploughed up, as it were, in order to receive the seed of art”, eKGWB/NF-1876,18[29].
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                          Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


23.       The ploughshare cuts into the hard earth and the soft, it goes beyond high things
          and low things and brings them close to it. This book is for the good man and the
          evil one, for the lowly and the mighty. The evil man who reads it will become better,
          the good man worse, the humble man more powerful, the powerful man more humble.
          (eKGWB/NF-1876,18[62])
24.       It is significant that Nietzsche struck out a continuation of the passage which read
      “Behind the ploughshare comes the sower” (KSA 14, 590), for it is in this note that
      his development of the ploughshare motif in isolation from the sower/ploughman and
      his plough begins. Here we find for the first time the connotation of hardness which
      he will spell out much later in Ecce Homo (“nothing but h a r d psychological”), but it
      is the ploughshare as c u t t i n g implement which is particularly stressed. The image
      works precisely against the connotations of safety and homeliness which otherwise
      emerge from the Helmbrecht quotation: Nietzsche turns the ploughman’s field into
      a field of battle, the a g r o s into an a g o n: h e t u r n s t h e p l o u g h s h a r e i n t o
      a s w o r d f r o m t h e o u t s e t. The “sword” is directed inwards and downwards,
      though, into the soul-soil29 — it becomes the scalpel of Nietzsche’s new depth
      physio-psychology, like the knives wielded by the “vivisectionists of the spirit” in
      the Genealogy (eKGWB/GM-III-4)30 . It is a subversive weapon, an implement
      for digging down and overturning31 ; its function resembles that of Nietzsche the
      “solitary mole” in the Preface to Daybreak, the “‘subterranean man’ [...] who
      tunnels and mines and undermines” (eKGWB/M-Vorrede-1)32 .
25.       The ploughshare may work independently of existing configurations of force and
      value — it is at least embryonically “beyond good and evil” — but with this “Guide
      to Spiritual Liberation” we are still a fair way from Daybreak or Zarathustra, for
      although at this early stage in Nietzsche’s development of the image the ploughshare
      is evidently already a symbol of transcendence (“it goes beyond high things and low
      things”), nevertheless its effect is to “level up” both high and low (it “brings them
      close to it”), and indeed in the second half of the passage it simply “levels out”
      differences. Most notably, it has the power to “improve” “evil” men and humble the


         29. See Graham Parkes, Composing the Soul: Reaches of Nietzsche’s Psychology (Chicago and
      London: University of Chicago Press, 1994), chap. 5, “Husbanding the Soul: Vegetal Propagation”
      (171-203), and the review symposium in Journal of Nietzsche Studies, 12 (Autumn 1996): 82-120,
      especially Claudia Crawford, “Composing the Soul: An Open Letter to Graham Parkes” (83-92).
         30. In this context let us not forget that Wagner was a “fanatical vegetarian” who campaigned
      against vivisection. See Ernest Newman, The Life of Richard Wagner, 4 vols (New York, 1937-46),
      IV: 192 and 601, quoted in Kaufmann, Nietzsche, 39.
         31. See Sarah Kofman, Explosion II : Les enfants de Nietzsche (Paris: Galilée, 1993), 192:
      “The ploughshare, as is well known, is the broad, pointed part of the plough which serves to break
      the surface of the soil and turn over [renverser] the earth. Were these notes perhaps Nietzsche’s
      first ‘pointed remarks’ — cutting, overwhelming [‘pointes’ tranchantes et renversantes] — the
      correlate of a deep wound from which it was writing, above all, that allowed him to gain some
      distance?”
         32. On Nietzsche’s use of the mole metaphor, see the essay David Farrell Krell dedicates to
      Helmbrecht (Breinig), “Der Maulwurf / The Mole: Reading Kant and Hegel (after Nietzsche)”,
      in Infectious Nietzsche (Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1996), 103-24
      (especially 113-19).
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                             Duncan Large


      mighty: it establishes a level growing field. The ploughshare does not (yet) restrict
      itself to undermining “the prejudices of morality”, for w h a t e v e r system of values
      one might previously have had, the ploughshare will subvert it; every value-valley,
      it seems, shall yet be exalted. There are still some disconcerting aspects to this
      passage, then, and Nietzsche is still conceiving the image of the ploughshare within
      the context of the Helmbrecht quotation, as an agent of universal transformation.


      4. Turning it Over

26.       He changes tack after September 1876 and returns to “The Free Spirit” as the
      projected title for his next book, but “The Ploughshare” nevertheless continues
      to “crop up” in his notebooks periodically thereafter, and he is evidently still
      turning over in his mind the implications of the image. In late 1876/early 1877,
      “Ploughshare” is once again fleetingly considered for the projected title of the new
      work (eKGWB/NF-1876,21[39])33 ; by Winter 1880-81 we find “The Ploughshare:
      Thoughts on the prejudices of morality” as a projected title for what would become
      Daybreak (eKGWB/NF-1880,9[Titel]); and as late as July-August 1882 Nietzsche
      is considering publishing a two-volume collected edition of the entire “free spirit
      trilogy” under the title “The Ploughshare: A Tool [Werkzeug] for Liberating the
      Spirit” (eKGWB/NF-1882,1[14]).

27.        In his published works of this period, too, Nietzsche continues to develop
      the image of the ploughshare, forging it into something more amenable to his
      purposes. In Human, All Too Human itself there are incidental references to
      ploughs and ploughing (eKGWB/MA-111 and 472), and more significant uses of a
      related agricultural metaphor, the human character as a farmer’s field, as in the
      paragraphs “Sowing and reaping with one’s personal shortcomings” (eKGWB/MA-
      617; cf. eKGWB/NF-1878,28[36]) or “The fruitful field” (eKGWB/VM-332; cf.
      eKGWB/NF-1881,11[21]). In a brief aphorism on “Employment of novelties”,
      though (eKGWB/VM-290), Nietzsche focuses for the first time in his published
      writings on the ploughs h a r e, writing: “Men employ something newly learned or
      experienced henceforth as a ploughshare, perhaps also as a weapon: but women
      straightway turn it into an ornament for themselves”. The ploughshare (if we
      did not already suspect it) is revealed as a phallic instrument, a man’s tool, and
      by associating it with a “weapon”, Nietzsche is already figuring it as dangerous.
      In Daybreak 146 (“Out beyond our neighbour too”) it develops into a sacrificial
      instrument, for here Nietzsche’s “higher and freer viewpoint” acknowledges the
      necessity “under certain circumstances to pursue more distant goals e v e n a t t h e
      c o s t o f t h e s u f f e r i n g o f o t h e r s”. One must be cruel to some in order to be
      kind to all the rest:

         33. See also the note from shortly afterwards: “Ploughman. / Both judge and pastor
      [Seelsorger]. / Preface afterwards”, eKGWB/NF-1876,21[57].
                  Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                           Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


28.      why may a few individuals of the present generation not be sacrificed to coming
         generations? Their grief, their distress, their despair, their blunders and fears not be
         deemed necessary, because a new ploughshare is to break up the ground and make it
         fruitful for all? (eKGWB/M-146)
29.       The “Helmbrechtian” theme of “fruitfulness for all” is still present here, and
      indeed in Daybreak 202 Nietzsche finally quotes the Helmbrecht passage itself in a
      published work, rounding off a section entitled “For the promotion of health” (“Zur
      Pflege der Gesundheit”) with the following:
30.      nor has there yet been a founder of a state who has wielded the ploughshare in the
         spirit of that generous and mild-hearted dictum: “if thou wouldst cultivate the land,
         cultivate it with the plough: then the bird and the wolf who follow behind the plough
         shall rejoice in thee — a l l c r e a t u r e s s h a l l r e j o i c e i n t h e e .” (eKGWB/M-202)
31.        Given the garbled nature of its reproduction here, Nietzsche is clearly quoting
      the Helmbrecht passage from memory: it makes a stirring conclusion to a paragraph,
      yet it is clearly being used in a spirit radically at variance to that of Helmbrecht
      senior’s “generous and mild-hearted dictum”. The context, a meditation on the
      criminal mentality, is ironically appropriate for a Helmbrecht quotation: the “health”
      with which this paragraph is concerned is the health of the community, and again
      Nietzsche’s point is that certain individuals (in this case criminals) must be sacrificed
      for the greater good. This is the only time he uses the ploughshare image in a
      political context, or in the context of “health”; indeed at first sight the quotation has
      so little to do with the rest of the passage that one would be justified in considering
      its inclusion an afterthought, prompted more than anything else by the alliteration
      of “Pflege” and “Pflug”. Its inclusion can only be explained if one recognises the
      transformation the ploughshare image has undergone since Nietzsche first detached
      it from its original context, and by setting the image b a c k in its original context he
      merely demonstrates how absolute the dissociation of ploughshare from ploughman
      has now become. The ploughshare is now wielded not by a harmless farmer but by
      a “founder of a state”, a legislator with a viewpoint “high” and “free” enough to
      give ends absolute priority over the means of achieving them and ruthlessly excise
      the sick parts of society for the benefit of all the rest. Generosity towards those
      who come after the plough is not an incidental side-effect but the main purpose
      of the procedure — Nietzsche’s misquotation, throwing the emphasis precisely on
      those “who follow behind the plough”, is instructive. The putative legislator’s
      concern for the well-being of the polity leads him to act with a signal absence of
      compassion, using his ploughshare effectively as a scythe, and Nietzsche rightly
      comments that “we should nowadays describe [him] as inhuman”.

      5. “The Ploughshare of Evil”
32.        With this uneasy juxtaposition of the Helmbrecht passage and Nietzsche’s
      new interpretation of it, it is as though he exorcises the original context of the
      ploughshare image “for good”, for in The Gay Science and Thus Spoke Zarathustra
      it is his new interpretation alone that holds sway. This is immediately apparent
      from paragraph 4 of The Gay Science, where the ploughshare is finally assigned a
                  Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                             Duncan Large


      “moral” evaluation of its own and is explicitly associated with “the strongest and
      most evil spirits”:
33.      The good men are in all ages those who dig the old thoughts, digging deep and
         getting them to bear fruit — the farmers of the spirit [Ackerbauer des Geistes]. But
         eventually all land is exploited, and the ploughshare of evil must come again and again.
         (eKGWB/FW-4)34
34.       Here Nietzsche’s revaluation is completed and the ploughshare and the farmer
      are finally set at odds: the “wicked” ploughshare (which merely appears “evil” from
      the impoverished perspective of the “good”) is the true benefactor of mankind,
      while the “farmers of the spirit” are consigned once more to the lowly position they
      occupied in Nietzsche’s writings of the early 1870s — “bores” ploughing the same
      old furrow as ever, like the “philosophical labourers” of Beyond Good and Evil 211
      (eKGWB/JGB-211), or the philologists who teach how to “swot up” (“ochsen”)
      in Twilight (eKGWB/GD-Streifzuege-29). The biblical Adam was banished from
      Eden and obliged by God “to till the ground from whence he was taken” so as to
      atone for his primal transgression (Genesis 3.23)35 , but Nietzsche returns to that
      “work” to revalue it, for it is “the ploughshare of evil” that redeems the “good men”
      from the barrenness of their labour.
35.       It is in this context of the subversion of “virtue” that Zarathustra explicitly
      identifies with the ploughshare:
36.      Alas, this is my sorrow: reward and punishment have been lyingly introduced into the
         foundation of things — and now even into the foundation of your souls, you virtuous!
37.      But my words, like the snout of the boar, shall tear up the foundations of your souls;
         you shall call me a ploughshare.
38.      All the secrets of your heart shall be brought to light; and when you lie, grubbed up
         and broken, in the sunlight, then your falsehood will be separated from your truth.
         (eKGWB/Za-II-Tugendhafte ; cf. eKGWB/NF-1883,9[6], 13[1], 13[7], 13[24])

39.       Although “The Ploughshare” drops away as a potential title after 1882, then,
      the image continues to be used up to 1884, in all four books of Zarathustra and the
      notebooks of the period. In Zarathustra, though, the ploughshare finds itself assailed
      by a welter of competing images derived from farming, forestry and the uncultivated
      natural world of soil, vegetation and fruit. From the outset, Zarathustra is en-
      treating his hearers to “r e m a i n t r u e t o t h e e a r t h” (eKGWB/Za-I-Vorrede-3;
      cf. eKGWB/Za-I-Tugend-2); parodying the New Testament, Nietzsche describes
      him at the beginning of Part Two as “like a sower who has scattered his seed”
      (eKGWB/Za-II-Kind; cf. eKGWB/NF-1883,13[3] and 13[20]), while Zarathustra
      himself urges man to “plant the seed of his highest hope” (eKGWB/Za-I-Vorrede-5)
      and his followers to “become begetters and cultivators and sowers of the future”
      (eKGWB/Za-III-Tafeln-12). The scholars are no longer figured here as oxen but as
      “mills and rammers” grinding down seed-corn into dust (eKGWB/Za-II-Gelehrte);


         35. The link between this passage and Genesis 2.7 (“And the Lord God formed man of the
      dust of the ground”) is made clearer by Luther’s German translation of the latter, where man is
      formed “of earth from the field” (“aus Erde vom Acker”).
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                        Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


      the ox is what the “sublime man” might yet become — “a white ox, snorting and
      bellowing as he goes before the plough” (eKGWB/Za-II-Erhabene; cf. eKGWB/NF-
      1883,9[6] and 13[1]) — while Zarathustra himself looks forward to the advent of a
      more post-moral version of the same animal: “The thawing wind, an ox that is no
      ploughing ox — a raging ox, a destroyer that breaks ice with its angry horns! ”
      (eKGWB/Za-III-Tafeln-8). Zarathustra himself is a destroyer (cf. eKGWB/EH-
      Bücher-1), a breaker of old law-tables, but he presents himself above all as a
      creator, and although all creators are hard (eKGWB/Za-II-Mitleidige), they no
      longer use ploughshares but a different set of cutting implements, namely the
      vine-knife (eKGWB/Za-IV-Nachtwandler-9) and the sickle. For above all creators
      are h a r v e s t e r s:

40.       The creator seeks companions and fellow-harvesters: for with him everything is ripe
          for harvesting. But he lacks his hundred sickles: so he tears off the ears of corn and is
          vexed.
41.       The creator seeks companions and such as know how to whet their sickles. They will be
          called destroyers and despisers of good and evil. But they are harvesters and rejoicers.
42.       Zarathustra seeks fellow-creators, fellow-harvesters, and fellow-rejoicers. (eKGWB/Za-
          I-Vorrede-9)

43.       This focus on the harvest in Zarathustra is the logical extension of Nietzsche’s
      orientating the ploughshare image towards the future — towards those “who follow
      behind the plough” — in Daybreak 36 . Yet in Zarathustra the two “moments” of the
      ploughshare and the autumn of harvest-time are explicitly contrasted (eKGWB/Za-
      II-Erloesung ; cf. eKGWB/NF-1883,16[48]), the one being a symbol of destruction
      as it breaks the surface of the earth, the other figuring creation, and the creation
      of new values above all. Although the one is an indispensable prelude to the other,
      Nietzsche’s increasing emphasis on images of ripeness and harvesting in Zarathustra
      eclipses the ploughshare image to such an extent that it seems Zarathustra can
      harvest without first either ploughing or sowing, which makes for a strange kind
      of “immaculate conception”37 . Zarathustra himself is “the richest and most-to-
      be-envied man” blessed with “rosy apples fallen from the tree” (eKGWB/Za-II-
      Grablied); in turn his teachings fall to his disciples like ripe figs in the autumn
      (eKGWB/Za-II-Inseln). For the majority of the book he himself is not ripe for
      his own fruits, though, as his “stillest hour” tells him at the end of Part Two
      (eKGWB/Za-II-Stunde). At the end of the long section “Of Old and New Law-
      Tables” in Part Three he apostrophises his Will, wishing “That I may one day be
      ready and ripe in the great noontide: ready and ripe like glowing ore, like cloud
      heavy with lightning and like swelling milk-udder” (eKGWB/Za-III-Tafeln-30) —
      one of Nietzsche’s few positive images derived from pastoral farming — but it is


         36. By derivation, he who “tills” in any case prepares the way to the goal: “till”, “telos” and
      the German “Ziel” (“aim”, “goal”) are all cognates.
         37. See Parkes, Composing the Soul, 187: here, in his section on “Sowings of Psychical Seed”
      (186-93), Parkes quickly “exhausts the seeding imagery in Nietzsche’s texts” and is obliged to
      switch to Plato.
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                               Duncan Large


      not until Part Four that the moment of Zarathustra’s ripeness arrives. Ironically it
      does n o t arrive in the section “At Noontide”, for there Zarathustra is overcome by
      sleep in the very act of reaching out to pluck himself a grape. In “The Intoxicated
      Song”, the tolling bell announces that his ripeness is (again) at hand (eKGWB/Za-
      IV-Nachtwandler-6), and at the very end of the book our hero can finally announce:
      “Zarathustra has become ripe, my hour has come!” (eKGWB/Za-IV-Zeichen).
44.        Thus Spoke Zarathustra is a kind of Bildungsroman which concludes with
      the hero becoming ripe for his task, but that task remains what it was at the
      very beginning of the book, the proclamation of the Overman as the ultimate
      harvest, “the meaning of the earth” (eKGWB/Za-I-Vorrede-3)38 . Just as Nietzsche
      himself, in the autumn of 1888, harvests the fruits of his own “ripeness” to clear
      the way for the “Revaluation of All Values” to come39 , so Zarathustra, transfigured,
      must yet return to “sow the seeds” — in this sense the structure of the book
      figures the agricultural cycle. The Overman is a plant that needs to be carefully
      prepared for and cultivated (cf. eKGWB/WS-189), but he is the t e l o s of the
      very earth itself, the noblest of all its fruits. Sturdier than any human plant yet
      produced, his strain will prove resistant to the noxious weed that is Christianity
      (eKGWB/GD-Verbesserer-4); nor will he be choked off by the “tropical vegetation
      of concepts” that shoots up from “the moral lie in the mouth of the decadent”
      (eKGWB/GD-Streifzuege-35). He will emerge like the “well-fruited” Dionysus of
      old40 : under Nietzsche’s ploughshare the earth itself is revalued and turned from the
      “fare of snakes” (eKGWB/FW-Vorspiel-8) into the birthplace of the transcendent.

      6. Conclusion
45.       The ploughshare serves Nietzsche as a transitional image, and he passes beyond
      it in the period after Thus Spoke Zarathustra, when it disappears from both his
      notes and published works. In the end he never uses it as a title — perhaps Gast
      persuaded him it to abandon it as too subdued, just as he later persuaded him to
      abandon the low-key working title for Twilight (KGB III/6, 309f.) — but between
      1876 and 1884 Nietzsche continues to explore and extend its range of reference,
      rejecting the inappropriate connotations of staidness and moral rectitude which
      attached to it in its original context, refashioning it instead into a potent symbol
      of “beneficent destruction”.

         38. On the recursive structure of Zarathustra, see Laurence Lampert, Nietzsche’s Teaching:
      An Interpretation of “Thus Spoke Zarathustra” (New Haven and London: Yale University Press,
      1986), 310f.
         39. See the “Intermezzo” which Nietzsche interleaved between the Foreword and “Why I am
      So Wise” in Ecce Homo: “On this perfect day, when everything has become ripe and not only
      the grapes are growing brown, a ray of sunlight has fallen on to my life”, eKGWB/EH-Weise-1.
      In the Preface to the Genealogy, Nietzsche is already describing that work as the “riper fruit” of
      ideas first expressed in Human, All Too Human, and the ten years in between are figured as the
      successful preparation of “a country of my own, a soil of my own”, eKGWB/GM-Vorrede-2 to 3;
      cf. eKGWB/MA-I-Vorrede-3.
         40. Frazer, The Golden Bough, 509.
                   Studia Nietzscheana (2014), www.nietzschesource.org/SN/large-2014.
                                        Nietzsche’s Helmbrecht


46.       The development of the ploughshare image provides an object lesson in Niet-
      zschean metaphorics, but it also illustrates the cavalier insouciance with which
      Nietzsche was at times prepared to treat a literary model. He first alighted on the
      Helmbrecht passage in 1869, at a point in his career characterised by an intensity
      of interest in literary history which would not thereafter be repeated. It is in his
      notebooks of this period that we find almost all the (handful of) references he will
      make to German medieval writers and writings, invariably in a Wagnerian context.
      Wolfram von Eschenbach, author of the Middle High German epic poem Parzival on
      which Wagner had based his Lohengrin and would subsequently base his Parsifal, is
      compared in passing to Wagner himself (eKGWB/NF-1870,7[162]); there are further
      passing references to the Siegfried of the Nibelungenlied (eKGWB/NF-1869,3[55])
      and to Tannhäuser the medieval Minnesänger (eKGWB/NF-1870,7[193]). But
      most of the renowned German writers of the medieval period — Gottfried von
      Strassburg, Hartmann von Aue, Heinrich von Morungen, Konrad von Würzburg,
      Walther von der Vogelweide — are absent from Nietzsche’s writings, for the fact
      remains that he had no real interest in medieval literature per se.
47.       Had Nietzsche known the poem Meier Helmbrecht as a whole, he might have
      recognised that his treatment of Helmbrecht senior was actually no different from
      his treatment of the historical Zoroaster, whom he deliberately transformed into his
      mouthpiece Zarathustra in order to represent “the self-overcoming of the moralist
      into his opposite — i n t o m e” (eKGWB/EH-Schicksal-3). But he evidently did
      not know the poem and saw no reason to familiarise himself with it (in 1876 he
      seems to have returned to Uhland, but not to Helmbrecht). Never one to bow to the
      dictates of scholarly etiquette, even during his period as a scholar (as Wilamowitz-
      Moellendorf would relish pointing out), he excelled himself on this occasion, simply
      transcribing initially, indeed, mistranscribing) a fragment quoted out of context, in
      a New High German translation, in a secondary work.
48.       Not that any of this really matters, for the second-hand quotation which Uhland
      provides for him is all he needs to be going on with when he retrieves it in 1876: he
      is happy to take his inspiration from literature in only the most tenuous of ways,
      for his purpose (by this stage, at least) is far removed from literary criticism. His
      imagination fired by the Helmbrecht quotation, he presses it into the service of his
      own interests from the start; like all the best literary models, it is ultimately no
      more than a point of departure and prepares the ground for Nietzsche’s own fertile
      philosophical invention to bear fruit41 .

Stamina is the energy you use to perform various actions such as attack, block, parry, roll or sprint, so stamina is an extremely important element of combat. Stamina regenerates when you stop using these actions. That makes escaping and regaining a very important part of the combat system. If you have your shield raised to block, your stamina is regenerated slower. So keep your shield down when it's safe to do so. When you run out of stamina, you can't use the actions listed above plus you can't switch weapons (even though it doesn't normally cost stamina to do so). It is also possible to temporarily have negative stamina if you activate a high stamina cost action when you only have a little stamina remaining. This will make your stamina bar stay at zero for longer, and leave you vulnerable. Keep your eye on the stamina bar always!
Clicking in the right controller stick on either the XBox or PS3 will lock to your nearest enemy provided they are within range. If there are multiple enemies, you can switch your target by moving the right stick left or right after you are locked on. Locking on makes it easier for you to hit your desired target. Locking on also locks your movement towards your target and makes it harder to be aware of your surroundings while fighting, so be aware when you lock-on. The key is to know when to switch to lock-on and off.
Critical strikes are attacks which deal much higher damage based on your equipped weapon's critical modifier.  The higher the modifier, the more damage will be done upon a critical strike Dagger weapons all have higher critical modifiers then all other weapons. Critical strikes are backstabs and riposte.
Attacking an enemy from their back at close range will lead to a powerful backstab attack. Backstab attacks deal a huge amount of damage, so it’s always worth trying to do. The attack animation lasts for a short while, but you're invincible while in the animation. Most enemies can be backstabbed, usually humanoid type enemies. Some unique enemies like the Fang Boar in Undead Parish cannot be backstabbed.
If you are using a light or medium shield (or certain types of weapon equipped in the left hand), you can parry incoming melee attacks by pressing L2 (on PS3) or the Left Trigger (on Xbox 360) right as a blow is about to land and hit you. Most heavier shields will not permit you to parry and instead will activate a shield bash, so make sure you have an appropriate shield before attempting to parry. Successfully doing so will cancel the enemy's attack and cause them to stagger in a unique animation leaving them open for a riposte attack. Parries are an advanced technique and hence will require practice to master, and there are points one should note to understand the action and make best use of it:
Certain enemy attacks cannot be parried - for example, some two handed attacks cannot be parried.
Different enemies and their various forms of melee attack have different sized windows of opportunity in which you can successfully parry them.
The speed at which you are able to perform the parry move will depend on the shield in use. There is the Fast Parry delivered by small shields, Special Parry delivered by the Buckler, Target Shield, and Parrying Dagger, and standard parry delivered by every other form of parry. 
If you fail your timing you will be left wide open to the enemy as well so it's very risky to try it on powerful enemies.
Parrying slightly out of time or attempting to parry an arrow or an attack that can't be parried will result in a Partial Parry. The enemy will hit you but part of the damage (60~70%) will be prevented.
While practicing the technique, you can hold down the block button and press the parry button. 
Parries on computer enemies are generally not subject to lag and can be accomplished based on visual cues tied to when the attack is about to strike you. In PvP, however, player network lag can make parries a little difficult to land, and the attempt to parry must often be made before your opponent even begins to swing (at least from what you see on your screen, due to the lag). These are usually referred to as "prediction parries" where you parry based on your prediction that the opponent is about to swing at you. Players learning how to parry should therefore first practice the basic concepts and techniques on computer enemies, with the understanding that learning to parry other players is an even more challenging and advanced skill.

After successfully parrying an enemy attack, signified by a unique sound effect and the sight of your attacker staggering, if you rapidly follow with a normal attack and are close enough to the enemy, a riposte will be performed. Ripostes are even deadlier versions of critical attacks than backstabs and can easily kill enemies in one strike. Similar to backstabs, the riposte animation will make you invulnerable for a brief period of time, which can be invaluable if you are facing multiple opponents.
When you are subjected to a status attack (e.g., poison), a status bar will appear on the bottom of the screen and begin to fill. The size of the bar is tied to your resistance to the aliment being inflicted. If the bar completely fills you will suffer the effect of the status. The bar will slowly recover so long as you are not being affected by the status attack, so if for example you are facing poisonous terrain with various islands of clear ground, you can wait on each patch of dry land for your poison status bar to recover before continuing on, and thereby avoid being poisoned. Most of the below aliments are more commonly encountered when facing computer enemies and environmental hazards, but there are some items that enable players to inflicted status effects on one other (with the exception of Curse).
Poison: Deals damage over time for its duration and cuts all healing in half. While the damage over time isn't especially dangerous, as it's a low value, the heal cut can be life threatening.
Toxic: Deals very high damage over time. If left unchecked, it can easily kill the player in less than 20 seconds. Cure it as soon as possible.
Curse: Instantly kills the player and cuts the remaining HP in half after the player returns to their previous bonfire. As of patch 1.05, Curse doesn't stack (you may get cursed while cursed, but your HP won't be halved again). If cursed, your best option is to seek a cure quickly. The HP reduction only affects standard HP; HP gained from rings/buffs won't be affected. Curse may be cured by a Purging Stone item, or by an NPC named Ingward located deep in the New Londo Ruins. It is wise to always carry a few Purging Stones, as being cursed can make it difficult to return to a vendor or Ingward if you do not have a cure handy.
Bleeding: Bleeding deals medium instant damage. This damage ignores armor and goes straight to the HP. Fast attacking weapons like Bandit's Knife or Katanas can easily inflict 1~2 bleeding effects in one combo. Prevent constant hits to avoid taking this damage. When the Bleeding gauge is full, it takes 30% of your maximum health, and sometimes 50% if a special weapon is used.
Poise: A very important statistic which determines your ability to resist having your "form broken" -- namely having your own actions interrupted when you are struck by an attack. With low poise, you will be more easily (and sometimes always) staggered when struck by an attack, which can interrupt your own attack or spell cast, and possibly subject you to a fatal "stunlocking" if your opponent has sufficient stamina and speed to keep hitting you and preventing you from moving. Working like other Status Resistances, there is a invisible bar that fills with the attacks you receive (the strength of the attack changes how much it fills) and when filled you will be staggered by the attack. Small weapons like daggers are greatly affected by Poise as they will rarely stagger an enemy, while great swords and other big weapons are mostly unaffected by it as a single strike will be able to stagger foes even with high Poise. Poise is affected by your equipped armor, and also by the Wolf Ring. Each wearable item has a Poise rating which may be viewed in its statistics. Your overall Poise rating, which may be viewed in the upper right hand corner of your Character information screen, is the sum of all the Poise ratings of your equipment. As a general rule of thumb, light gear has 0 poise, while heavy armor often provides significant Poise. Many players seek to have at least 52 poise to ensure they cannot be staggered by the first attack of all but the heaviest of weapons, while a poise of 77 should prevent a player from being stunned by the first attack of any weapon, including ultra greatswords. Even with very high Poise, however, it is still possible to be staggered or even knocked down by certain magical attacks or other effects.
Strength is required for the majority of the weapons to wield. It is a weapon damage modifier and controls the player's Attack Power that increase your damage output for weapons that has strength scaling. More strength points is required for larger and heavier weapons to wield. Strength does NOT affect your weapon swing speed.

Most weapons require a minimum strength level to be wielded properly.
Two-handing the weapon will give a 50% strength bonus, affecting both the weapon requirements and damage modifier.
If you do not meet the minimum strength required, the weapon damage is decreased and the moveset is altered to a single slow swing.
Strength is the only stat that affects the moveset, but not meeting the Dexterity, Intelligence or Faith requirements of the weapon will make it rebound upon contact, and also decrease the damage.
Strength is especially useful for Ultra Greatswords, Axes and Great Axes, Hammers and Great Hammers.
It's an in-game statistic that increases your resistance to being staggered or stun-locked as an effect of taking hits from opponents. 

Staggered: an enemy's attack interrupts your action. High poise will allow you to perform an action to completion despite being hit by enemies in their course (example: swinging a slow weapon, or casting spells).
Stun-locked: an enemy's attacks causes you to temporarily be paralyzed, leaving you vulnerable to consecutive hits. Poise will allow you to soak up heavier hits and increase the number of consecutive hits you can take before getting stun-locked.
Poise is a passive trait that is raised by wearing armor that gives you poise, equiping the Wolf Ring, casting Iron Flesh and/or using the Havel's Greatshield stoneskin buff. Note, however, that both Iron Flesh and the stoneskin buff are personal buffs and cannot be used concurrently.
Poise works, in essence, as the maximum value of an invisible "poise bar". Whenever you're hit by an attack, that attack/weapon has an invisible "poise damage" value, which decreases your poise bar by that amount. Consecutively receiving attacks will continue to decrease the bar further. When it hits 0, your character will stagger.
The most important breakpoints are 32 to take all the quickest attacks, 53 or 56 to take one of all the most dangerous attacks (except for Black Flame) and 61 to take 2x an attack which deals 30 poise Damage.
Optimal Breakpoints are highly dependent on what build one is fighting. As an example, there is no immediate reason to use 61 poise against a Quality build (Strength and Dexterity), which may use a Murakumo or a Claymore, 53 poise would take a single two-handed light attack of each. However those builds are capable of swapping to a Katana, Spear or Curved Sword, against which 61 poise would give a significant advantage, and having invested into getting 53 instead of 32 poise will instead be a disadvantage.
Becoming staggered is a very serious situation, and can become very difficult when surrounded by numerous enemies.
Being staggered means that you will not be able to control your character after taking a heavy blow from an opponent.
It should also be important to remember that two handing a single weapon increases the poise break damage and can be used to stagger opponents unexpectable.
Note that some attacks cause instant staggering, and is not dependent on your Poise count.
Poise Break Points
It has been found that certain weapon classes will stun people at very specific poise amounts. For example Ultra Greatswords , when used 2 handed, will stun anyone at 75 poise or less. So a poise of 76 will prevent you being stunlocked by a hit from an UGS. However these values will only save you from 1 hit. If you are hit again before your "poise bar" empties completely you will be stunned.
Each time a hit is taken, poise will reduce and remain briefly frozen at the latest value (it does not regenerate steadily like stamina). This means that if a player with 53 poise gets hit by an attack that drains 20 poise, the player will then have exactly 33 poise for the next few seconds. A hidden timer is triggered with each hit that is taken, and if it completes before another hit is taken, poise will instantly refill back to 100%.
The world of Dark Souls is a world of cycles. Kingdoms rise and fall, ages come and go, and even time can end and restart as the flame fades and is renewed. These cycles are linked to the First Flame, a mysterious manifestation of life that divides and defines separate states such as heat and cold, or life and death. As the First Flame fades, these differences also begin to fade, such as life and death having little distinction, and humans becoming Undead. The onset of an Age of Dark, the time when the First Flame has fully died, is marked by endless nights, rampant undeath, time, space, and reality breaking down, lands collapsing and converging on one another, people mutating into monsters, darkness covering the world, and the Gods losing their power. To avoid this and prolong the Age of Fire, the bearer of a powerful soul must "link" themselves to the First Flame, becoming the fuel for another age. If this is not done, the First Flame will eventually die, and an Age of Dark will begin.

The powerful Lord Souls were taken from the First Flame, used to defeat the dragons, and then to establish kingdoms. Souls are inextricably (and inexplicably) linked to fire. Souls are life, and life is fire; it stands to reason that souls are fire, as well. Without the First Flame and without souls, there is no life. The bearer of a strong soul, called a Lord, who links themselves to the First Flame, is thus rekindling the flames with their own soul, returning life to it. In the end, one could expect that all souls will have been returned to the First Flame, and the Age of Fire will have effectively ended anyways.

It is inevitable that people try to find a way around this, another way to continue the Age of Fire without making sacrifices, but in every case they fail. In the first Age of Fire, the Witch of Izalith attempted to create a duplicate of the First Flame using her witchcraft and a special soul, but failed catastrophically. Instead of making another First Flame, she had created a twisted Flame of Chaos that produced distortions of life, turning herself and all her daughters into demons. These demons were malevolent, and wandered the land. Gwyn gathered up his armies and fought the demons of Chaos, eventually driving them back and shackling the Bed of Chaos to bind them. Knowing that the Age of Fire was nearing its end, under the guidance of the primordial serpent Kingseeker Frampt, Gwyn offered himself to the First Flame to stave off the Dark. As the flames surged with new life, the knights who followed him in were burnt by the flames and now wander the world as the Black Knights, hollow shells of armor who attack indiscriminately.

Before he left to link the First Flame, Gwyn gave fragments of his soul to his followers and allies. Ornstein, Gough, Ciaran, and Artorias, his four strongest knights who fought against the dragons, Seath the Paledrake, who betrayed the dragons and played a crucial role in the war, and was also granted the title of Duke and permission to build a grand archive to conduct his research, and the Four Kings of New Londo, who ruled a city of Undead. In time, another primordial serpent convinced the people of the human kingdom of Oolacile to delve into the darkness of the Abyss to unearth the grave of an ancient human. Whether through their actions or some other means, the primordial human - Manus - was resurrected and driven to madness, and his wild Humanity caused the people of Oolacile to mutate into abominations. Manus, Father of the Abyss, began to rapidly spread Dark and accelerate the growth of the Abyss, and would've started an early Age of Dark had he not been defeated. Even so, the kingdom of Oolacile was lost to the Abyss, and eventually forgotten in the modern day. Nothing remains in the present day to mark the passing of this land save for Dusk, the princess of Oolacile.

Gwyn's youngest son Gwyndolin, together with Kingseeker Frampt, sheperds the humans by Gwyn's command. Together they built giant asylums to house the countless undead, hoping against hope that one of them would be chosen to defeat the Asylum demon, and fulfill their destiny. The Undead are sent on a quest to ring the Bells of Awakening, collect the Lordvessel, slay the bearers of  Gwynn's soul, then offer those souls to the Lordvessel to open the path to the Kiln of the First Flame. In doing so, the unnatural Undead are given true death and the living can enjoy another age of fire for a thousand years, while the Undead linked to the First Flame will continue to burn, alive and aware, until someone else comes to take their place. And thus, the cycle continues.
Known as the land of the ancient Lords, where their kingdoms converge. This is where the game takes place, and it is a dangerous area indeed. Containing a great variety of environments and filled with many dangerous creatures, any Undead's resolve will be tested to the fullest here. The Undead travel great distances to reach this land, where the First Flame waits to be linked.
Known as the city of the gods, and founded by Lord Gwyn. It sits at the top of a mountain, and both the cliff face and its own walls separate it from the outside world. Long ago, invitations were given to great champions among humans, decided through victories in an arena, but this practice has not been kept up for some time. Sen's Fortress sits below it, an enormous deathtrap serving as both gateway and obstacle to Anor Londo, and those who could overcome it were permitted access, but the pathway at the end has since been sealed. Now, any Undead seeking to enter the city are carried in by bat-winged demons if they can overcome the fortress. The truth of Anor Londo is hidden behind an intricate illusion; when the First Flame began to fade, all of the gods abandoned Anor Londo save for Gwyndolin, Gwyn's youngest son. He now uses his magic to make it look like the city still stands strong, but in reality only he and his knights remain, and he is the only true authority left.
Legendary city of the Witch of Izalith, one of the four original Lords. She and her daughters founded this city deep underground. The Witch and her daughters were originally practitioners of a form of fire sorcery, but this art was lost when the Flame of Chaos destroyed the city. When the First Flame began to fade, the Witch of Izalith tried to reproduce it using her magic and a special soul. However, she failed, and the result was the Flame of Chaos: a twisted flame that produced distorted life instead, known as the demons. Gwyn and his knights waged a war against these demons and eventually defeated them, sealing the Bed of Chaos, their source of life, with magic. Some demons now appear in roles that suggest they may work for the gods, either willingly or as captured servants. The creation of the Flame of Chaos also created pyromancy as a byproduct, and Quelana, the only Daughter of Izalith to escape the destruction, was able to develop an entire system of magic to imitate the ancient fire spells. She took only one student, Salaman from the Great Swamp. In teaching Salaman, she hoped that mankind could learn to harness and control the flames, to prevent the same catastrophy that destroyed her own home. Salaman then returned to the Great Swamp to spread the art of pyromancy.
An extensive network of tombs and crypts, overseen by Gravelord Nito. All things that die are laid to rest here, and Nito's power of necromancy ensures that they are not disturbed. The area is not completely peaceful, however, and at one point a group of occultists attempted to steal Nito's power and use it to kill the gods. They presumably failed, but weapons and artefacts of their perverse rituals can still be found. Now the necromancer Pinwheel resides in the catacombs, where he slowly siphons away Nito's power for his own ends.
A large city of Undead, this place was once prosperous and known for the foresight of its leaders. All undead were welcomed here, and it soon became a safe haven for undead that were banished from their homelands. New Londo was a city teeming with culture and life. Recognizing this, Lord Gwyn bestowed on the four leaders a fragment of his soul and the rank of king before he left to link the First Flame. Later, the Four Kings encountered Darkstalker Kaathe in the Abyss, who offered to teach them the art of lifedrain. In doing so, the Four Kings and their order of knights were corrupted by the dark, becoming the Darkwraiths of Kaathe. The threat they posed to the outside world was so great that the whole city was flooded to contain them, killing everyone inside. The dead still wander as ghosts through the ruins, and the Darkwraiths themselves survived the flooding even though they are still trapped.
An ancient and long forgotten human kingdom that was once in Lordran. It was a peaceful land of scholars, who practiced a now lost form of light-based sorcery. Before its fall, a path to the Abyss was unearthed, and they encountered a primordial serpent who convinced them to delve into the depths of the Abyss to unearth the grave of a primordial human. When revived, this human, named Manus, went mad, and his humanity went wild. This caused him to mutate into a huge abomination, and contact with his humanity caused the people of Oolacile to also mutate into abominations. Manus was a powerful sorcerer and master of the Dark, and with his magic he guided the Abyss to grow, swiftly overtaking the kingdom of Oolacile. Knight Artorias was sent in to defeat Manus and halt the Abyss, but he failed and was corrupted by the Dark instead. The Chosen Undead travels back in time to lay Artorias to rest and defeat Manus in his stead. As the player is not naturally from that time, their actions are instead attributed to Artorias, to be known as the Abysswalker, a legendary knight who traversed the Abyss to defeat the Darkwraiths.
A human kingdom outside Lordran, it is a land known for its traditional knights, clergy, and nobility. The Way of White originates from here, and the knight and cleric classes available to the player are apparently travelers from this land and start with the Way of White covenant. The Way of White itself is very proactive about removing Undead, and sponsors great hunts to round them up and forcibly transport them to an asylum on the edge of Lordran. Clerics and knights within the Way of White who become Undead are sent to Lordran on a pilgrimage, where they are told to search the Catacombs and learn the Rite of Kindling. At some point in the past, a terrible beast known as the Evil Eye attacked the kingdom of Astora, causing great damage. It was defeated, and its spirit is rumored to be trapped in a magic ring.
Another kingdom outside Lordran that is known for its festivites and drinks, and also for the peculiar onion-like armor of its knights. Their armor was designed to deflect blows and is actually highly effective, and the knights take great pride in it, but the appearance is still mocked by outsiders.

The Great Swamp.
A distant and inhospitable land outside Lordran, unwanted by all save for the people who live there. Not a formal kingdom per se, it is populated by outcasts and exiles from other lands. They share a common interest in the teachings of pyromancy, and appear to practice some form of shamanism as well. As they are not a proper kingdom, they have no order of knights, but pyromancy is an easy craft to use and is still very powerful. Travelers from the Great Swamp are often equipped with wrapped clothing that protects them from the dangers of their homeland, and versatile hand axes that serve as both tools and weapons. It is not specified whether Undead are welcome there, but Undead from there are often ecstatic for the chance to travel to Lordran and hopefully visit the ancient city of Izalith.
A land known for the Dragon School, a place of study for the system of sorcery formalized by Seath the Scaleless. The School employs its own spies and assassins trained in sound-manipulating magic, and through this maintain control of the city and its politics. The sorcerer starting class available to the player originates from Vinheim.
This kingdom is most known for its shady aristocrats and knights, and its gods. If anything, it is the polar opposite of Astora. Pardoners of Velka, the rogue goddess, are known to come from here, and it is home to the infamous Arstor of Carim. It is a place known for distinctive weaponry: Carim knights use lightweight parrying daggers in place of shields and their Shotels cut a sinister profile, and its archers are trained in a unique crossbow specialized for sniping. A very particular kind of magic ring originates from here, exceptional at resisting status effects but rumored to be created through dreadful means. The Purging Stone items are also from Carim, and the fact that they contain the remains of humans raises serious questions about the nature of their production.
An asylum for the undead on the edge of Lordran. Undead were corralled here, and in many such places by order of Gwyndolin, the youngest son of Gwynn, Lord of Sunlight. The Undead are kept here in hopes that one day one of them would be chosen to be able to defeat the gatekeeper, the fearsome Asylum demon and go on to link the first flame. It is still unclear whether the Undead is chosen because they are able to defeat the Asylum Demon, or that they are able to defeat the Asylum demon because they are chosen.
earer of the strongest Lord Soul, Gwyn's power manifested as great spears of sunlight, which take the form of lightning. He founded the kingdom of Anor Londo, lead an army of his silver knights against the dragons, and was father to Gwynevere, Gwyndolin, and his disowned firstborn son(thought to be Sen, the ancient God of War). Gwyn was the first to link the First Flame, becoming a Lord of Cinder, and now mindlessly guards it against outside threats and serves as a test of strength for those seeking to link it again. Gwyn's crown is said to have once had some special power, but its power has long since faded and now only exudes a slight warmth by the time the player acquires it. Gwyn and his clan are referred to as gods. Whether this is by Gwyn's own command or simply a title given to them by others for their strength is unknown, though they are still the primary religious figures in many human kingdoms.
The second daughter of Gwyn, and known as a goddess of fertility. The real Gwynevere married the flame god Flann and left Anor Londo long ago when the First Flame began to fade, but Gwyndolin created an illusion of her to maintain the image of power and stability in the kingdom. This illusion grants successful Undead the Lordvessel, and directs them to follow Kingseeker Frampt's advice and fill it with Lord Souls. Undead who ask can join the Princess Guard, knights of Gwynevere who grant aid to fellow Undead through the use of her miracles.
Legendary knight of Gwyn, known for his unbreakable will of steel and unmatched skill with greatswords. It is said that Artorias forged a pact with the beasts of the Abyss to fight against the Darkwraiths, but this is only a fabrication, as his true story was intentionally obscured and eventually forgotten. In reality, Artorias was defeated by the Abyss, and his efforts were carried on by a forgotten champion. This champion eventually defeated Manus, Father of the Abyss, successfully stalling the Abyss's growth for some time. Artorias was friends with Sif the Great Wolf and the cat Alvina, both of whom now defend his grave from those who hope to find the means to enter the Abyss.
One of the four original Lord Soul bearers, her Lord Soul granted the power of fire. She is a witch and master of the now forgotten fire sorceries, and founded the city of Izalith with her daughters deep underground. When the First Flame began to fade, she attempted to create a second First Flame to replace it using her witchcraft and a special soul, but failed catastrophically and instead created the Flame of Chaos. The birth of Chaos marked the birth of demons, and its flame transformed the Witch of Izalith and all her daughters into demons barring Quelana, who escaped the destruction of her home. As the daughters of Izalith were the only practitioners of fire sorcery, it is now a forgotten art, but the creation of Chaos also created pyromancy as a byproduct. Gwyn waged war against the demons and eventually routed them, shackling the Bed of Chaos, their source of life, to contain them.
One of the daughters of Izalith, and the only one who successfully escaped the destruction of her home. The end of Izalith marked the end of fire sorcery, but the creation of Chaos also marked the birth of pyromancy. Quelana adapted many old fire sorcery spells into pyromancy, then taught them to her pupil Salaman long ago, who then taught it to the outcasts who live in the Great Swamp. In teaching pyromancy, she hoped to teach people control over the flame to prevent another such disaster, while also preaching a message to fear the flame as it is inherently uncontrollable. Quelana is known to pre-date the Age of Fire, but by how much or even how at all is never explained.
One of the four original Lord Soul bearers, Nito's soul grants power over death. Nito can inflict disease and decay, and animates skeletons to fight for him. Along with the other four original Lords, he played a major role in defeating the dragons and now holds dominion over an extended system of crypts and tombs where he watches over the dead. Nito leads a covenant, the Gravelord Servants, who use Eyes of Death to spread misfortune and curses, which produces more of the Eyes of Death Nito desires. Not much is known about him beyond this, though at one point a group of occultists tried to take a part of his Lord Soul in an attempt to slay the gods. More recently, the necromancer Pinwheel has been slowly draining Nito's power for his own use. Even despite all of this, Nito's Lord Soul remains strong enough to satiate the Lordvessel, and he is still a Lord in his own right.
Necromancer of the Catacombs, he has been taking power from Nito's soul for his own ends. Pinwheel appears to have three heads and six arms, and concept art of him shows three separate bodies either stacked together or fused underneath his robe. Pinwheel himself is not especially powerful, and does not accomplish anything of note in the story. His three masks are each enchanted with special power, and will fortify the body of anyone wearing them.
Seath was born without the scales that make other dragons immortal. In his envy, he betrayed them and stole the primordial crystal, which granted him near complete invulnerability, if not an adequate imitation of immortality. After the war, he was given the title of Duke by Gwyn, a fragment of Gwyn's own soul, and a tower and archives to conduct his research in. Seath eventually codified a system of magic utilizing souls, and is known as the father of sorcery by the Dragon School of Vinheim which teaches it. Seath spent his time trying to find the secrets of immortality and produce scales for himself, but his research eventually drove him mad and his experiments became more and more deranged. By the time the game begins, he is sending his minions out to kidnap maidens and perform horrible atrocities on them, turning them into monsters. In his madness, he developed powerful sorceries based on a link between souls and crystals, the mere study of which is enough to drive other wizards equally insane. As with all dragons, his tail can be severed to find a special weapon: the Moonlight Greatsword, a non-physical blade that shoots, and is composed of, waves of moonlight.
A primeval human, Manus was once a man but becomes a twisted abomination after being resurrected. His Humanity goes wild, and similarly mutates any other human it comesin contact with. He is a dark sorcerer of immense power, and wields the strength of the Abyss to bring the kingdom of Oolacile to its knees in short order, capturing the Princess Dusk. The Abyss spreads rapidly under his guidance, and while its spread is halted with his death, Gough notes that this is only a temporary measure. The knight Artorias attempts to stop him, but is defeated. Manus himself is warped beyond the ability to reason by his revival, and desperately seeks his precious pendant, which he never finds. He demonstrates the ability to reach beyond time and space, snatching at least two people from the future and dragging them back into the past.
The fate of the Hollow Knight is linked to the end of the Knight's journey. By killing the Hollow Knight, the Knight takes their place in sealing the Radiance. By instead entering their mind with the help of Hornet, the Knight can kill the Radiance. At the end of this fight, the Hollow Knight's Shade appears and opens up a weak point on her head, allowing the Knight to land the finishing blows. The two siblings then return to the Void together.
The Hollow Knight is the Vessel chosen by the Pale King to seal away the Radiance and save Hallownest from the Infection.[2] Like their siblings, they are the child of the King and Queen of Hallownest, birthed in the Abyss to be infused with the power of the Void.[3] As such, they are genderless.[1][4] This birth condition was also supposed to leave them without a mind, will, and voice,[5] to prevent the Radiance from influencing them.[6][7] However, their purity was misjudged, tarnished by an idea instilled,[8] a bond with the Pale King who raised them.[9]


The young Hollow Knight being led out of the Abyss

Regardless of their impurity, the Hollow Knight was trained and raised, eventually becoming a fully grown Vessel.[10] The Radiance was sealed within them, and they were chained within the Temple of the Black Egg where they were expected to contain the Infection for eternity.[11] However, because of the aforementioned impurities, the Radiance could still exert influence. It ultimately resulted in the resurgence of the Infection and the Kingdom falling into ruin.

Over time, the Hollow Knight disappeared from the fallen Kingdom's memory. Only the Memorial in the middle of the City of Tears testifies of their sacrifice to save Hallownest.
These are the base attacks that the Hollow Knight starts with. They are expanded on in the next 2 Phases.

Triple Slash: The Hollow Knight swings their nail 3 times. This attack is only used in Phases 1 through 3. Each swing of their nail moves the Hollow Knight forward, covering about 25% of the arena in total. The swings are so wide that they can damage the Knight even if they are behind the Hollow Knight.
Lunge: The Hollow Knight lunges along the ground with their nail pointed towards the Knight. This attack is only used in Phases 1 through 3. This lunge covers about 50% of the arena.
Parry: The Hollow Knight take up a defensive stance with their nail. If the Knight damages them after their nail shines, they take no damage from the hit and instead respond with a riposte. This attack is only used in Phases 1 through 3. The riposte has a huge arc and sizeable range because the Hollow Knight slides forward rapidly when they swing. The parry lasts 0.75 seconds.
After reaching 750 HP, the Hollow Knight gains these attacks in addition to the attacks of Phase 1. The Hollow Knight attacks and moves more frequently.

Diving Flame Pillar: The Hollow Knight either jumps or teleports into the air and then slams straight down with their nail, causing columns of Infected fire to shoot up from the ground. No matter which method they choose, the Hollow Knight attempts to slam down where the Knight was at the beginning of the attack. This attack is only used in Phases 2 and 3. Lifeblood content This attack deals two Masks of damage.
Barrage: The Hollow Knight launches multiple blobs of Infection towards the Knight from beneath their cloak. This attack is only used in Phases 2 and 3. The blobs are fired in arcs at multiple angles, starting low and working up. This attack covers about 75% of the arena. The Hollow Knight launches 9 or 10 blobs in total. This attack does not track the Knight; the blobs always follow the same arcs.
After reaching 400 HP, the Hollow Knight gains these attacks in addition to the attacks from the previous Phases. However, they lose the Lunge and Triple Slash attacks. The Hollow Knight attacks and moves less frequently and cannot be staggered after this Phase starts.

Outbreak: The Hollow Knight hovers in the air and shoots blobs of Infection everywhere. This attack is only used in Phase 3. The Hollow Knight is always in the centre of the arena for this attack. They remain in the air for about 6.5 seconds. The blobs travel along three primary paths: an arc going left, an arc going right, and a third going down. Blobs burst from the Hollow Knight for 5-6 seconds.
Bouncing Balloon: The Hollow Knight floats around the arena and bounces up and down 2-5 times. This attack is only used in Phases 3 and 4. This attack tracks the Knight's position and always aims for the Knight, specifically during the slam.
Self Stab: The Hollow Knight stands in place and stabs their nail through their chest multiple times. During this move, all damage dealt to the Hollow Knight is reduced to 1, regardless of Nail level.

After reaching 0 HP, the Hollow Knight heals for 250 HP only if the fight is continued. Depending on the Knight's progress, the fight is interrupted by Hornet, allowing the Knight to access their mind with the Dream Nail and fight the Radiance, otherwise, the fight continues as normal.

During the fourth Phase of the battle, the Hollow Knight loses all other attacks except the Bouncing Balloon and Self Stab attacks and gains one new attack.

Deterioration: The Hollow Knight attempts to swing their nail once and then falls to their knees. This attack is only used in Phase 4. Essentially, the Hollow Knight is attempting a Triple Slash attack but as soon as the first slash happens, they fall over without moving forward at all.
Upon breaking the seals on the Temple of the Black Egg by destroying the three Dreamers, the Knight is allowed entrance in order to fight this boss. To begin the fight, the Knight must break the four chains holding the Hollow Knight.

The Hollow Knight fight has 4 Phases. Each Phase is marked by the Hollow Knight standing still, turning their head skyward and roaring. This roar stuns the Knight. The fight changes with each Phase.

In Phase 1, the Hollow Knight has three attacks: Triple Slash, Lunge, and Parry. The attacks come regularly. The Hollow Knight back dashes, teleports, and leaps around the arena between attacks.

In Phase 2 of the fight, the Hollow Knight gains two more attacks (Barrage and Diving Flame Pillar) and the Hollow Knight moves and attacks with greater frequency.

In Phase 3, the Hollow Knight begins stabbing themself. The Hollow Knight gains two more attacks (Outbreak and Bouncing Balloon) but they also slow down: rarely leaping or teleporting and their attacks come less often.

In Phase 4, the Hollow Knight can barely move. They can no longer teleport or leap and can hardly swing their nail. Only two attacks are used in the phase: the Bouncing Balloon and Deterioration.

The main weakness of the Hollow Knight is that they are vulnerable to attacks from above. During a Lunge or Triple Slash, jump above their head and Nail-bounce a few times while they finish the attack. If they parry your attack, shadow dash through their riposte.

There are safe zones amongst the blobs during the Barrage and Explosion atacks so pay attention and move into safe zones. Dashing can often overshoot a safe zone, so walking is usually the safer option.

During the Bouncing Balloon attack, the Hollow Knight attempts to home in on the Knight. They have trouble tracking if the Knight constantly changes direction. Dodge the first slam, then dash under them when they rise for a new slam, then reverse again after they come down and repeat.

During the Diving Flame Pillar attack, the pillars briefly charge on the floor before erupting, showing where it is safe to stand. When the Hollow Knight jumps and readies their nail, start looking for a safe zone immediately after dodging the downward strike.

The Hollow Knight's teleport usually positions them far away from the Knight, so using Vengeful Spirit/Shade Soul during this time is useful to get hits in before they charge another attack. Moving too far from the Hollow Knight makes it more likely they will teleport close to the Knight, so be careful when running away to heal.

Depending on the Knight's progress, one of two endings plays out after the fight. After the ending, the Knight respawns at the last Bench they rested at. The Hollow Knight can be Dream Nailed at the start of Phase 4 if the Knight has Void Heart, initiating the fight with the Radiance.
Today is the anniversary of the publication of Robert Frost’s iconic poem “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” a fact that spurred the Literary Hub office into a long conversation about their favorite poems, the most iconic poems written in English, and which poems we should all have already read (or at least be reading next). Turns out, despite frequent (false) claims that poetry is dead and/or irrelevant and/or boring, there are plenty of poems that have sunk deep into our collective consciousness as cultural icons. (What makes a poem iconic? For our purposes here, it’s primarily a matter of cultural ubiquity, though unimpeachable excellence helps any case.) So for those of you who were not present for our epic office argument, I have listed some of them here.

NB that I limited myself to one poem per poet—which means that the impetus for this list actually gets bumped for the widely quoted (and misunderstood) “The Road Not Taken,” but so it goes. I also excluded book-length poems, because they’re really a different form. Finally, despite the headline, I’m sure there are many, many iconic poems out there that I’ve missed—so feel free to extend this list in the comments. But for now, happy reading (and re-reading):
April is the cruellest month, breeding
Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing
Memory and desire, stirring
Dull roots with spring rain.
Winter kept us warm, covering
Earth in forgetful snow, feeding
A little life with dried tubers.
Summer surprised us, coming over the Starnbergersee
With a shower of rain; we stopped in the colonnade,
And went on in sunlight, into the Hofgarten,
And drank coffee, and talked for an hour.
Bin gar keine Russin, stamm’ aus Litauen, echt deutsch.
And when we were children, staying at the archduke’s,
My cousin’s, he took me out on a sled,
And I was frightened. He said, Marie,
Marie, hold on tight. And down we went.
In the mountains, there you feel free.
I read, much of the night, and go south in the winter.

What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow
Out of this stony rubbish? Son of man,
You cannot say, or guess, for you know only
A heap of broken images, where the sun beats,
And the dead tree gives no shelter, the cricket no relief,
And the dry stone no sound of water. Only
There is shadow under this red rock,
(Come in under the shadow of this red rock),
And I will show you something different from either
Your shadow at morning striding behind you
Or your shadow at evening rising to meet you;
I will show you fear in a handful of dust.
Madame Sosostris, famous clairvoyante,
Had a bad cold, nevertheless
Is known to be the wisest woman in Europe,
With a wicked pack of cards. Here, said she,
Is your card, the drowned Phoenician Sailor,
(Those are pearls that were his eyes. Look!)
Here is Belladonna, the Lady of the Rocks,
The lady of situations.
Here is the man with three staves, and here the Wheel,
And here is the one-eyed merchant, and this card,
Which is blank, is something he carries on his back,
Which I am forbidden to see. I do not find
The Hanged Man. Fear death by water.
I see crowds of people, walking round in a ring.
Thank you. If you see dear Mrs. Equitone,
Tell her I bring the horoscope myself:
One must be so careful these days.

Unreal City,
Under the brown fog of a winter dawn,
A crowd flowed over London Bridge, so many,
I had not thought death had undone so many.
Sighs, short and infrequent, were exhaled,
And each man fixed his eyes before his feet.
Flowed up the hill and down King William Street,
To where Saint Mary Woolnoth kept the hours
With a dead sound on the final stroke of nine.
There I saw one I knew, and stopped him, crying: 'Stetson!
'You who were with me in the ships at Mylae!
'That corpse you planted last year in your garden,
'Has it begun to sprout? Will it bloom this year?
'Or has the sudden frost disturbed its bed?
'Oh keep the Dog far hence, that’s friend to men,
'Or with his nails he’ll dig it up again!
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both
And be one traveler, long I stood
And looked down one as far as I could
To where it bent in the undergrowth;

Then took the other, as just as fair,
And having perhaps the better claim,
Because it was grassy and wanted wear;
Though as for that the passing there
Had worn them really about the same,

And both that morning equally lay
In leaves no step had trodden black.
Oh, I kept the first for another day!
Yet knowing how way leads on to way,
I doubted if I should ever come back.

I shall be telling this with a sigh
Somewhere ages and ages hence:
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—
I took the one less traveled by,
And that has made all the difference.
The art of losing isn’t hard to master;
so many things seem filled with the intent
to be lost that their loss is no disaster.

Lose something every day. Accept the fluster
of lost door keys, the hour badly spent.
The art of losing isn’t hard to master.

Then practice losing farther, losing faster:
places, and names, and where it was you meant
to travel. None of these will bring disaster.

I lost my mother’s watch. And look! my last, or
next-to-last, of three loved houses went.
The art of losing isn’t hard to master.

I lost two cities, lovely ones. And, vaster,
some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent.
I miss them, but it wasn’t a disaster.

—Even losing you (the joking voice, a gesture
I love) I shan’t have lied. It’s evident
the art of losing’s not too hard to master
though it may look like (Write it!) like disaster.

Because I could not stop for Death –
He kindly stopped for me –
The Carriage held but just Ourselves –
And Immortality.

We slowly drove – He knew no haste
And I had put away
My labor and my leisure too,
For His Civility –

We passed the School, where Children strove
At Recess – in the Ring –
We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain –
We passed the Setting Sun –

Or rather – He passed Us –
The Dews drew quivering and Chill –
For only Gossamer, my Gown –
My Tippet – only Tulle –

We paused before a House that seemed
A Swelling of the Ground –
The Roof was scarcely visible –
The Cornice – in the Ground –

Since then – 'tis Centuries – and yet
Feels shorter than the Day
I first surmised the Horses' Heads
Were toward Eternity –

You do not do, you do not do   
Any more, black shoe
In which I have lived like a foot   
For thirty years, poor and white,   
Barely daring to breathe or Achoo.

Daddy, I have had to kill you.   
You died before I had time——
Marble-heavy, a bag full of God,   
Ghastly statue with one gray toe   
Big as a Frisco seal

And a head in the freakish Atlantic   
Where it pours bean green over blue   
In the waters off beautiful Nauset.   
I used to pray to recover you.
Ach, du.

In the German tongue, in the Polish town   
Scraped flat by the roller
Of wars, wars, wars.
But the name of the town is common.   
My Polack friend

Says there are a dozen or two.   
So I never could tell where you   
Put your foot, your root,
I never could talk to you.
The tongue stuck in my jaw.

It stuck in a barb wire snare.   
Ich, ich, ich, ich,
I could hardly speak.
I thought every German was you.   
And the language obscene

An engine, an engine
Chuffing me off like a Jew.
A Jew to Dachau, Auschwitz, Belsen.   
I began to talk like a Jew.
I think I may well be a Jew.

The snows of the Tyrol, the clear beer of Vienna   
Are not very pure or true.
With my gipsy ancestress and my weird luck   
And my Taroc pack and my Taroc pack
I may be a bit of a Jew.

I have always been scared of you,
With your Luftwaffe, your gobbledygoo.   
And your neat mustache
And your Aryan eye, bright blue.
Panzer-man, panzer-man, O You——

Not God but a swastika
So black no sky could squeak through.   
Every woman adores a Fascist,   
The boot in the face, the brute   
Brute heart of a brute like you.

You stand at the blackboard, daddy,   
In the picture I have of you,
A cleft in your chin instead of your foot   
But no less a devil for that, no not   
Any less the black man who

Bit my pretty red heart in two.
I was ten when they buried you.   
At twenty I tried to die
And get back, back, back to you.
I thought even the bones would do.

But they pulled me out of the sack,   
And they stuck me together with glue.   
And then I knew what to do.
I made a model of you,
A man in black with a Meinkampf look

And a love of the rack and the screw.   
And I said I do, I do.
So daddy, I’m finally through.
The black telephone’s off at the root,   
The voices just can’t worm through.

If I’ve killed one man, I’ve killed two——
The vampire who said he was you   
And drank my blood for a year,
Seven years, if you want to know.
Daddy, you can lie back now.

There’s a stake in your fat black heart   
And the villagers never liked you.
They are dancing and stamping on you.   
They always knew it was you.
Daddy, daddy, you bastard, I’m through.

Jesús, Estrella, Esperanza, Mercy:

       Sails flashing to the wind like weapons,
       sharks following the moans the fever and the dying;   
       horror the corposant and compass rose.

Middle Passage:
               voyage through death
                               to life upon these shores.

       “10 April 1800—
       Blacks rebellious. Crew uneasy. Our linguist says   
       their moaning is a prayer for death,
       ours and their own. Some try to starve themselves.   
       Lost three this morning leaped with crazy laughter   
       to the waiting sharks, sang as they went under.”

Desire, Adventure, Tartar, Ann:

       Standing to America, bringing home   
       black gold, black ivory, black seed.

               Deep in the festering hold thy father lies,   
               of his bones New England pews are made,   
               those are altar lights that were his eyes.

Jesus    Saviour    Pilot    Me
Over    Life’s    Tempestuous    Sea

We pray that Thou wilt grant, O Lord,   
safe passage to our vessels bringing   
heathen souls unto Thy chastening.

Jesus    Saviour

       “8 bells. I cannot sleep, for I am sick
       with fear, but writing eases fear a little
       since still my eyes can see these words take shape   
       upon the page & so I write, as one
       would turn to exorcism. 4 days scudding,
       but now the sea is calm again. Misfortune
       follows in our wake like sharks (our grinning   
       tutelary gods). Which one of us
       has killed an albatross? A plague among
       our blacks—Ophthalmia: blindness—& we   
       have jettisoned the blind to no avail.
       It spreads, the terrifying sickness spreads.
       Its claws have scratched sight from the Capt.'s eyes   
       & there is blindness in the fo’c’sle
       & we must sail 3 weeks before we come
       to port.”

               What port awaits us, Davy Jones’
               or home? I’ve heard of slavers drifting, drifting,   
               playthings of wind and storm and chance, their crews   
               gone blind, the jungle hatred
               crawling up on deck.

Thou    Who    Walked    On    Galilee

       “Deponent further sayeth The Bella J
       left the Guinea Coast
       with cargo of five hundred blacks and odd   
       for the barracoons of Florida:

       “That there was hardly room ’tween-decks for half   
       the sweltering cattle stowed spoon-fashion there;   
       that some went mad of thirst and tore their flesh   
       and sucked the blood:

       “That Crew and Captain lusted with the comeliest   
       of the savage girls kept naked in the cabins;   
       that there was one they called The Guinea Rose   
       and they cast lots and fought to lie with her:

       “That when the Bo’s’n piped all hands, the flames   
       spreading from starboard already were beyond   
       control, the negroes howling and their chains   
       entangled with the flames:

       “That the burning blacks could not be reached,   
       that the Crew abandoned ship,
       leaving their shrieking negresses behind,
       that the Captain perished drunken with the wenches:

       “Further Deponent sayeth not.”

Pilot    Oh    Pilot    Me


       II

Aye, lad, and I have seen those factories,   
Gambia, Rio Pongo, Calabar;
have watched the artful mongos baiting traps   
of war wherein the victor and the vanquished

Were caught as prizes for our barracoons.   
Have seen the nigger kings whose vanity
and greed turned wild black hides of Fellatah,   
Mandingo, Ibo, Kru to gold for us.

And there was one—King Anthracite we named him—
fetish face beneath French parasols
of brass and orange velvet, impudent mouth
whose cups were carven skulls of enemies:

He’d honor us with drum and feast and conjo   
and palm-oil-glistening wenches deft in love,   
and for tin crowns that shone with paste,   
red calico and German-silver trinkets

Would have the drums talk war and send   
his warriors to burn the sleeping villages   
and kill the sick and old and lead the young   
in coffles to our factories.

Twenty years a trader, twenty years,
for there was wealth aplenty to be harvested   
from those black fields, and I’d be trading still   
but for the fevers melting down my bones.


       III

Shuttles in the rocking loom of history,   
the dark ships move, the dark ships move,   
their bright ironical names
like jests of kindness on a murderer’s mouth;   
plough through thrashing glister toward   
fata morgana’s lucent melting shore,   
weave toward New World littorals that are   
mirage and myth and actual shore.

Voyage through death,
                               voyage whose chartings are unlove.

A charnel stench, effluvium of living death   
spreads outward from the hold,
where the living and the dead, the horribly dying,   
lie interlocked, lie foul with blood and excrement.

       Deep in the festering hold thy father lies,   
       the corpse of mercy rots with him,   
       rats eat love’s rotten gelid eyes.

       But, oh, the living look at you
       with human eyes whose suffering accuses you,   
       whose hatred reaches through the swill of dark   
       to strike you like a leper’s claw.

       You cannot stare that hatred down
       or chain the fear that stalks the watches
       and breathes on you its fetid scorching breath;   
       cannot kill the deep immortal human wish,   
       the timeless will.

               “But for the storm that flung up barriers   
               of wind and wave, The Amistad, señores,
               would have reached the port of Príncipe in two,   
               three days at most; but for the storm we should   
               have been prepared for what befell.   
               Swift as the puma’s leap it came. There was   
               that interval of moonless calm filled only   
               with the water’s and the rigging’s usual sounds,   
               then sudden movement, blows and snarling cries   
               and they had fallen on us with machete   
               and marlinspike. It was as though the very   
               air, the night itself were striking us.   
               Exhausted by the rigors of the storm,
               we were no match for them. Our men went down   
               before the murderous Africans. Our loyal   
               Celestino ran from below with gun   
               and lantern and I saw, before the cane-
               knife’s wounding flash, Cinquez,
               that surly brute who calls himself a prince,   
               directing, urging on the ghastly work.
               He hacked the poor mulatto down, and then   
               he turned on me. The decks were slippery
               when daylight finally came. It sickens me   
               to think of what I saw, of how these apes   
               threw overboard the butchered bodies of
               our men, true Christians all, like so much jetsam.   
               Enough, enough. The rest is quickly told:   
               Cinquez was forced to spare the two of us   
               you see to steer the ship to Africa,   
               and we like phantoms doomed to rove the sea   
               voyaged east by day and west by night,   
               deceiving them, hoping for rescue,   
               prisoners on our own vessel, till   
               at length we drifted to the shores of this   
               your land, America, where we were freed   
               from our unspeakable misery. Now we   
               demand, good sirs, the extradition of   
               Cinquez and his accomplices to La   
               Havana. And it distresses us to know   
               there are so many here who seem inclined   
               to justify the mutiny of these blacks.   
               We find it paradoxical indeed
               that you whose wealth, whose tree of liberty   
               are rooted in the labor of your slaves
               should suffer the august John Quincy Adams   
               to speak with so much passion of the right   
               of chattel slaves to kill their lawful masters   
               and with his Roman rhetoric weave a hero’s   
               garland for Cinquez. I tell you that   
               we are determined to return to Cuba
               with our slaves and there see justice done. Cinquez—
               or let us say ‘the Prince’—Cinquez shall die.”

       The deep immortal human wish,   
       the timeless will:

               Cinquez its deathless primaveral image,   
               life that transfigures many lives.

       Voyage through death
                                     to life upon these shores.
Among twenty snowy mountains,   
The only moving thing   
Was the eye of the blackbird.   

II
I was of three minds,   
Like a tree   
In which there are three blackbirds.   

III
The blackbird whirled in the autumn winds.   
It was a small part of the pantomime.   

IV
A man and a woman   
Are one.   
A man and a woman and a blackbird   
Are one.   

V
I do not know which to prefer,   
The beauty of inflections   
Or the beauty of innuendoes,   
The blackbird whistling   
Or just after.   

VI
Icicles filled the long window   
With barbaric glass.   
The shadow of the blackbird   
Crossed it, to and fro.   
The mood   
Traced in the shadow   
An indecipherable cause.   

VII
O thin men of Haddam,   
Why do you imagine golden birds?   
Do you not see how the blackbird   
Walks around the feet   
Of the women about you?   

VIII
I know noble accents   
And lucid, inescapable rhythms;   
But I know, too,   
That the blackbird is involved   
In what I know.   

IX
When the blackbird flew out of sight,   
It marked the edge   
Of one of many circles.   

X
At the sight of blackbirds   
Flying in a green light,   
Even the bawds of euphony   
Would cry out sharply.   

XI
He rode over Connecticut   
In a glass coach.   
Once, a fear pierced him,   
In that he mistook   
The shadow of his equipage   
For blackbirds.   

XII
The river is moving.   
The blackbird must be flying.   

XIII
It was evening all afternoon.   
It was snowing   
And it was going to snow.   
The blackbird sat   
In the cedar-limbs.
I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,
dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix,
angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night,
who poverty and tatters and hollow-eyed and high sat up smoking in the supernatural darkness of cold-water flats floating across the tops of cities contemplating jazz,
who bared their brains to Heaven under the El and saw Mohammedan angels staggering on tenement roofs illuminated,
who passed through universities with radiant cool eyes hallucinating Arkansas and Blake-light tragedy among the scholars of war,
who were expelled from the academies for crazy & publishing obscene odes on the windows of the skull,
who cowered in unshaven rooms in underwear, burning their money in wastebaskets and listening to the Terror through the wall,
who got busted in their pubic beards returning through Laredo with a belt of marijuana for New York,
who ate fire in paint hotels or drank turpentine in Paradise Alley, death, or purgatoried their torsos night after night
with dreams, with drugs, with waking nightmares, alcohol and cock and endless balls,
incomparable blind streets of shuddering cloud and lightning in the mind leaping toward poles of Canada & Paterson, illuminating all the motionless world of Time between,
Peyote solidities of halls, backyard green tree cemetery dawns, wine drunkenness over the rooftops, storefront boroughs of teahead joyride neon blinking traffic light, sun and moon and tree vibrations in the roaring winter dusks of Brooklyn, ashcan rantings and kind king light of mind,
who chained themselves to subways for the endless ride from Battery to holy Bronx on benzedrine until the noise of wheels and children brought them down shuddering mouth-wracked and battered bleak of brain all drained of brilliance in the drear light of Zoo,
who sank all night in submarine light of Bickford’s floated out and sat through the stale beer afternoon in desolate Fugazzi’s, listening to the crack of doom on the hydrogen jukebox,
who talked continuously seventy hours from park to pad to bar to Bellevue to museum to the Brooklyn Bridge,
a lost battalion of platonic conversationalists jumping down the stoops off fire escapes off windowsills off Empire State out of the moon,
yacketayakking screaming vomiting whispering facts and memories and anecdotes and eyeball kicks and shocks of hospitals and jails and wars,
whole intellects disgorged in total recall for seven days and nights with brilliant eyes, meat for the Synagogue cast on the pavement,
who vanished into nowhere Zen New Jersey leaving a trail of ambiguous picture postcards of Atlantic City Hall,
suffering Eastern sweats and Tangerian bone-grindings and migraines of China under junk-withdrawal in Newark’s bleak furnished room,   
who wandered around and around at midnight in the railroad yard wondering where to go, and went, leaving no broken hearts,
who lit cigarettes in boxcars boxcars boxcars racketing through snow toward lonesome farms in grandfather night,
who studied Plotinus Poe St. John of the Cross telepathy and bop kabbalah because the cosmos instinctively vibrated at their feet in Kansas,   
who loned it through the streets of Idaho seeking visionary indian angels who were visionary indian angels,
who thought they were only mad when Baltimore gleamed in supernatural ecstasy,
who jumped in limousines with the Chinaman of Oklahoma on the impulse of winter midnight streetlight smalltown rain,
who lounged hungry and lonesome through Houston seeking jazz or sex or soup, and followed the brilliant Spaniard to converse about America and Eternity, a hopeless task, and so took ship to Africa,
who disappeared into the volcanoes of Mexico leaving behind nothing but the shadow of dungarees and the lava and ash of poetry scattered in fireplace Chicago,
who reappeared on the West Coast investigating the FBI in beards and shorts with big pacifist eyes sexy in their dark skin passing out incomprehensible leaflets,
who burned cigarette holes in their arms protesting the narcotic tobacco haze of Capitalism,
who distributed Supercommunist pamphlets in Union Square weeping and undressing while the sirens of Los Alamos wailed them down, and wailed down Wall, and the Staten Island ferry also wailed,
who broke down crying in white gymnasiums naked and trembling before the machinery of other skeletons,
who bit detectives in the neck and shrieked with delight in policecars for committing no crime but their own wild cooking pederasty and intoxication,
who howled on their knees in the subway and were dragged off the roof waving genitals and manuscripts,
who let themselves be fucked in the ass by saintly motorcyclists, and screamed with joy,
who blew and were blown by those human seraphim, the sailors, caresses of Atlantic and Caribbean love,
who balled in the morning in the evenings in rosegardens and the grass of public parks and cemeteries scattering their semen freely to whomever come who may,
who hiccuped endlessly trying to giggle but wound up with a sob behind a partition in a Turkish Bath when the blond & naked angel came to pierce them with a sword,
who lost their loveboys to the three old shrews of fate the one eyed shrew of the heterosexual dollar the one eyed shrew that winks out of the womb and the one eyed shrew that does nothing but sit on her ass and snip the intellectual golden threads of the craftsman’s loom,
who copulated ecstatic and insatiate with a bottle of beer a sweetheart a package of cigarettes a candle and fell off the bed, and continued along the floor and down the hall and ended fainting on the wall with a vision of ultimate cunt and come eluding the last gyzym of consciousness,
who sweetened the snatches of a million girls trembling in the sunset, and were red eyed in the morning but prepared to sweeten the snatch of the sunrise, flashing buttocks under barns and naked in the lake,
who went out whoring through Colorado in myriad stolen night-cars, N.C., secret hero of these poems, cocksman and Adonis of Denver—joy to the memory of his innumerable lays of girls in empty lots & diner backyards, moviehouses’ rickety rows, on mountaintops in caves or with gaunt waitresses in familiar roadside lonely petticoat upliftings & especially secret gas-station solipsisms of johns, & hometown alleys too,
who faded out in vast sordid movies, were shifted in dreams, woke on a sudden Manhattan, and picked themselves up out of basements hung-over with heartless Tokay and horrors of Third Avenue iron dreams & stumbled to unemployment offices,
who walked all night with their shoes full of blood on the snowbank docks waiting for a door in the East River to open to a room full of steam-heat and opium,
who created great suicidal dramas on the apartment cliff-banks of the Hudson under the wartime blue floodlight of the moon & their heads shall be crowned with laurel in oblivion,
who ate the lamb stew of the imagination or digested the crab at the muddy bottom of the rivers of Bowery,
who wept at the romance of the streets with their pushcarts full of onions and bad music,
who sat in boxes breathing in the darkness under the bridge, and rose up to build harpsichords in their lofts,
who coughed on the sixth floor of Harlem crowned with flame under the tubercular sky surrounded by orange crates of theology,
who scribbled all night rocking and rolling over lofty incantations which in the yellow morning were stanzas of gibberish,
who cooked rotten animals lung heart feet tail borsht & tortillas dreaming of the pure vegetable kingdom,
who plunged themselves under meat trucks looking for an egg,
who threw their watches off the roof to cast their ballot for Eternity outside of Time, & alarm clocks fell on their heads every day for the next decade,
who cut their wrists three times successively unsuccessfully, gave up and were forced to open antique stores where they thought they were growing old and cried,
who were burned alive in their innocent flannel suits on Madison Avenue amid blasts of leaden verse & the tanked-up clatter of the iron regiments of fashion & the nitroglycerine shrieks of the fairies of advertising & the mustard gas of sinister intelligent editors, or were run down by the drunken taxicabs of Absolute Reality,
who jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge this actually happened and walked away unknown and forgotten into the ghostly daze of Chinatown soup alleyways & firetrucks, not even one free beer,
who sang out of their windows in despair, fell out of the subway window, jumped in the filthy Passaic, leaped on negroes, cried all over the street, danced on broken wineglasses barefoot smashed phonograph records of nostalgic European 1930s German jazz finished the whiskey and threw up groaning into the bloody toilet, moans in their ears and the blast of colossal steamwhistles,
who barreled down the highways of the past journeying to each other’s hotrod-Golgotha jail-solitude watch or Birmingham jazz incarnation,
who drove crosscountry seventytwo hours to find out if I had a vision or you had a vision or he had a vision to find out Eternity,
who journeyed to Denver, who died in Denver, who came back to Denver & waited in vain, who watched over Denver & brooded & loned in Denver and finally went away to find out the Time, & now Denver is lonesome for her heroes,
who fell on their knees in hopeless cathedrals praying for each other’s salvation and light and breasts, until the soul illuminated its hair for a second,
who crashed through their minds in jail waiting for impossible criminals with golden heads and the charm of reality in their hearts who sang sweet blues to Alcatraz,
who retired to Mexico to cultivate a habit, or Rocky Mount to tender Buddha or Tangiers to boys or Southern Pacific to the black locomotive or Harvard to Narcissus to Woodlawn to the daisychain or grave,
who demanded sanity trials accusing the radio of hypnotism & were left with their insanity & their hands & a hung jury,
who threw potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism and subsequently presented themselves on the granite steps of the madhouse with shaven heads and harlequin speech of suicide, demanding instantaneous lobotomy,
and who were given instead the concrete void of insulin Metrazol electricity hydrotherapy psychotherapy occupational therapy pingpong & amnesia,
who in humorless protest overturned only one symbolic pingpong table, resting briefly in catatonia,
returning years later truly bald except for a wig of blood, and tears and fingers, to the visible madman doom of the wards of the madtowns of the East,
Pilgrim State’s Rockland’s and Greystone’s foetid halls, bickering with the echoes of the soul, rocking and rolling in the midnight solitude-bench dolmen-realms of love, dream of life a nightmare, bodies turned to stone as heavy as the moon,
with mother finally and the last fantastic book flung out of the tenement window, and the last door closed at 4 A.M. and the last telephone slammed at the wall in reply and the last furnished room emptied down to the last piece of mental furniture, a yellow paper rose twisted on a wire hanger in the closet, and even that imaginary, nothing but a hopeful little bit of hallucination—
ah, Carl, while you are not safe I am not safe, and now you’re really in the total animal soup of time—
and who therefore ran through the icy streets obsessed with a sudden flash of the alchemy of the use of the ellipsis catalogue a variable measure and the vibrating plane,
who dreamt and made incarnate gaps in Time & Space through images juxtaposed, and trapped the archangel of the soul between 2 visual images and joined the elemental verbs and set the noun and dash of consciousness together jumping with sensation of Pater Omnipotens Aeterna Deus
to recreate the syntax and measure of poor human prose and stand before you speechless and intelligent and shaking with shame, rejected yet confessing out the soul to conform to the rhythm of thought in his naked and endless head,
the madman bum and angel beat in Time, unknown, yet putting down here what might be left to say in time come after death,
and rose reincarnate in the ghostly clothes of jazz in the goldhorn shadow of the band and blew the suffering of America’s naked mind for love into an eli eli lamma lamma sabacthani saxophone cry that shivered the cities down to the last radio
with the absolute heart of the poem of life butchered out of their own bodies good to eat a thousand years.
What sphinx of cement and aluminum bashed open their skulls and ate up their brains and imagination?
Moloch! Solitude! Filth! Ugliness! Ashcans and unobtainable dollars! Children screaming under the stairways! Boys sobbing in armies! Old men weeping in the parks!
Moloch! Moloch! Nightmare of Moloch! Moloch the loveless! Mental Moloch! Moloch the heavy judger of men!
Moloch the incomprehensible prison! Moloch the crossbone soulless jailhouse and Congress of sorrows! Moloch whose buildings are judgment! Moloch the vast stone of war! Moloch the stunned governments!
Moloch whose mind is pure machinery! Moloch whose blood is running money! Moloch whose fingers are ten armies! Moloch whose breast is a cannibal dynamo! Moloch whose ear is a smoking tomb!
Moloch whose eyes are a thousand blind windows! Moloch whose skyscrapers stand in the long streets like endless Jehovahs! Moloch whose factories dream and croak in the fog! Moloch whose smoke-stacks and antennae crown the cities!
Moloch whose love is endless oil and stone! Moloch whose soul is electricity and banks! Moloch whose poverty is the specter of genius! Moloch whose fate is a cloud of sexless hydrogen! Moloch whose name is the Mind!
Moloch in whom I sit lonely! Moloch in whom I dream Angels! Crazy in Moloch! Cocksucker in Moloch! Lacklove and manless in Moloch!
Moloch who entered my soul early! Moloch in whom I am a consciousness without a body! Moloch who frightened me out of my natural ecstasy! Moloch whom I abandon! Wake up in Moloch! Light streaming out of the sky!
Moloch! Moloch! Robot apartments! invisible suburbs! skeleton treasuries! blind capitals! demonic industries! spectral nations! invincible madhouses! granite cocks! monstrous bombs!
They broke their backs lifting Moloch to Heaven! Pavements, trees, radios, tons! lifting the city to Heaven which exists and is everywhere about us!
Visions! omens! hallucinations! miracles! ecstasies! gone down the American river!
Dreams! adorations! illuminations! religions! the whole boatload of sensitive bullshit!
Breakthroughs! over the river! flips and crucifixions! gone down the flood! Highs! Epiphanies! Despairs! Ten years’ animal screams and suicides! Minds! New loves! Mad generation! down on the rocks of Time!
Real holy laughter in the river! They saw it all! the wild eyes! the holy yells! They bade farewell! They jumped off the roof! to solitude! waving! carrying flowers! Down to the river! into the street!
You may write me down in history
With your bitter, twisted lies,
You may trod me in the very dirt
But still, like dust, I'll rise.

Does my sassiness upset you?
Why are you beset with gloom?
’Cause I walk like I've got oil wells
Pumping in my living room.

Just like moons and like suns,
With the certainty of tides,
Just like hopes springing high,
Still I'll rise.

Did you want to see me broken?
Bowed head and lowered eyes?
Shoulders falling down like teardrops,
Weakened by my soulful cries?

Does my haughtiness offend you?
Don't you take it awful hard
’Cause I laugh like I've got gold mines
Diggin’ in my own backyard.

You may shoot me with your words,
You may cut me with your eyes,
You may kill me with your hatefulness,
But still, like air, I’ll rise.

Does my sexiness upset you?
Does it come as a surprise
That I dance like I've got diamonds
At the meeting of my thighs?

Out of the huts of history’s shame
I rise
Up from a past that’s rooted in pain
I rise
I'm a black ocean, leaping and wide,
Welling and swelling I bear in the tide.

Leaving behind nights of terror and fear
I rise
Into a daybreak that’s wondrously clear
I rise
Bringing the gifts that my ancestors gave,
I am the dream and the hope of the slave.
I rise
I rise
I rise.
Do not go gentle into that good night,
Old age should burn and rave at close of day;
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

Though wise men at their end know dark is right,
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.

Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,
And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,
Do not go gentle into that good night.

Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay,
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.

And you, my father, there on the sad height,
Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
A stately pleasure-dome decree:
Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
Through caverns measureless to man
   Down to a sunless sea.
So twice five miles of fertile ground
With walls and towers were girdled round;
And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills,
Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree;
And here were forests ancient as the hills,
Enfolding sunny spots of greenery.

But oh! that deep romantic chasm which slanted
Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover!
A savage place! as holy and enchanted
As e’er beneath a waning moon was haunted
By woman wailing for her demon-lover!
And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,
As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,
A mighty fountain momently was forced:
Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst
Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,
Or chaffy grain beneath the thresher’s flail:
And mid these dancing rocks at once and ever
It flung up momently the sacred river.
Five miles meandering with a mazy motion
Through wood and dale the sacred river ran,
Then reached the caverns measureless to man,
And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean;
And ’mid this tumult Kubla heard from far
Ancestral voices prophesying war!
   The shadow of the dome of pleasure
   Floated midway on the waves;
   Where was heard the mingled measure
   From the fountain and the caves.
It was a miracle of rare device,
A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!

   A damsel with a dulcimer
   In a vision once I saw:
   It was an Abyssinian maid
   And on her dulcimer she played,
   Singing of Mount Abora.
   Could I revive within me
   Her symphony and song,
   To such a deep delight ’twould win me,
That with music loud and long,
I would build that dome in air,
That sunny dome! those caves of ice!
And all who heard should see them there,
And all should cry, Beware! Beware!
His flashing eyes, his floating hair!
Weave a circle round him thrice,
And close your eyes with holy dread
For he on honey-dew hath fed,
And drunk the milk of Paradise.
I met a traveller from an antique land,
Who said—“Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert. . . . Near them, on the sand,
Half sunk a shattered visage lies, whose frown,
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,
The hand that mocked them, and the heart that fed;
And on the pedestal, these words appear:
My name is Ozymandias, King of Kings;
Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay
Of that colossal Wreck, boundless and bare
The lone and level sands stretch far away.”
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore—
    While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.
“’Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door—
            Only this and nothing more.”

    Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December;
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
    Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow
    From my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore—
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
            Nameless here for evermore.

    And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;
    So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating
    “’Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door—
Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door;—
            This it is and nothing more.”

    Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,
“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
    But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,
    And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
That I scarce was sure I heard you”—here I opened wide the door;—
            Darkness there and nothing more.

    Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before;
    But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,
    And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, “Lenore?”
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, “Lenore!”—
            Merely this and nothing more.

    Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
    “Surely,” said I, “surely that is something at my window lattice;
      Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore—
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore;—
            ’Tis the wind and nothing more!”

    Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore;
    Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
    But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door—
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door—
            Perched, and sat, and nothing more.

Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling,
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,
“Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou,” I said, “art sure no craven,
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore—
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night’s Plutonian shore!”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”

    Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,
Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;
    For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being
    Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door—
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,
            With such name as “Nevermore.”

    But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
    Nothing farther then he uttered—not a feather then he fluttered—
    Till I scarcely more than muttered “Other friends have flown before—
On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before.”
            Then the bird said “Nevermore.”

    Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
“Doubtless,” said I, “what it utters is its only stock and store
    Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster
    Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore—
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore
            Of ‘Never—nevermore’.”

    But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling,
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door;
    Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
    Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore—
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore
            Meant in croaking “Nevermore.”

    This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom’s core;
    This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining
    On the cushion’s velvet lining that the lamp-light gloated o’er,
But whose velvet-violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o’er,
            She shall press, ah, nevermore!

    Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.
    “Wretch,” I cried, “thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee
    Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore;
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”

    “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!—
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,
    Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—
    On this home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—
Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”

    “Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!—prophet still, if bird or devil!
By that Heaven that bends above us—by that God we both adore—
    Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,
    It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore—
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore.”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”

    “Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting—
“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
    Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
    Leave my loneliness unbroken!—quit the bust above my door!
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!”
            Quoth the Raven “Nevermore.”

    And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;
    And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon’s that is dreaming,
    And the lamp-light o’er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor;
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor
            Shall be lifted—nevermore!
engrave
engraved
engravement
engraven
engraver
engravers
engraves
grave
grave-born
grave-bound
grave-browed
graveclod
gravecloth
graveclothes
grave-clothes
grave-colored
graved
gravedigger
grave-digger
gravediggers
grave-digging
gravedo
grave-faced
gravegarth
graveyard
graveyards
gravel
gravel-bind
gravel-blind
gravel-blindness
graveldiver
graveled
graveless
gravel-grass
gravely
gravelike
graveling
gravelish
gravelled
Gravelly
gravelliness
gravelling
grave-looking
gravelous
gravel-pit
gravelroot
gravels
gravelstone
gravel-stone
gravel-walk
gravelweed
gravemaker
gravemaking
graveman
gravemaster
graven
graveness
gravenesses
Gravenhage
Gravenstein
graveolence
graveolency
graveolent
graver
gravery
grave-riven
graverobber
graverobbing
grave-robbing
gravers
Graves
Gravesend
graveship
graveside
gravest
gravestead
gravestone
gravestones
grave-toned
Gravette
Gravettian
grave-visaged
graveward
gravewards
grave-wax
ingrapple
ingrate
ingrateful
ingratefully
ingratefulness
ingrately
ingrates
ingratiate
ingratiated
ingratiates
ingratiating
ingratiatingly
ingratiation
ingratiatory
ingratitude
ingratitudes
Ingra
ingracious
ingraft
ingraftation
ingrafted
ingrafter
ingrafting
ingraftment
ingrafts
Ingraham
ingrain
ingrained
ingrainedly
ingrainedness
ingraining
ingrains
Ingram
ingrammaticism
ingramness
ingrandize
ingrapple
ingrate
ingrateful
ingratefully
ingratefulness
ingrately
ingrates
ingratiate
ingratiated
ingratiates
ingratiating
ingratiatingly
ingratiation
ingratiatory
ingratitude
ingratitudes
ingrave
ingravescence
ingravescent
ingravidate
ingravidation
ingreat
ingredience
ingredient
ingredients
integer
integers
integer's
integrability
integrable
integral
integrality
integralization
integralize
integrally
integrals
integral's
integrand
integrant
integraph
integrate
integrated
integrates
integrating
integration
integrationist
integrations
integrative
integrator
integrifolious
integrious
integriously
integripallial
integripalliate
integrity
integrities
integrodifferential
integropallial
Integropallialia
Integropalliata
integropalliate
integumation
integument
integumental
integumentary
integumentation
integuments
irradiations
irradiative
irradiator
irradicable
irradicably
irradicate
irradicated
irrarefiable
irrate
irrationability
irrationable
irrationably
irrational
irrationalise
irrationalised
irrationalising
irrationalism
irrationalist
irrationalistic
irrationality
irrationalities
irrationalize
irrationalized
irrationalizing
irrationally
irrationalness
irrationals
Irrawaddy
irreal
irreality
irrealizable
irrebuttable
irreceptive
irreceptivity
irreciprocal
irreciprocity
irreclaimability
irreclaimable
irreclaimableness
irreclaimably
irreclaimed
irrecognition
irrecognizability
irrecognizable
irrecognizably
irrecognizant
irrecollection
irreconcilability
irreconcilabilities
irreconcilable
irreconcilableness
irreconcilably
irreconcile
irreconciled
irreconcilement
irreconciliability
irreconciliable
irreconciliableness
irreconciliably
irreconciliation
irrecordable
irrecoverable
irrecoverableness
irrecoverably
irrecuperable
irrecurable
irrecusable
irrecusably
irred
irredeemability
irredeemable
irredeemableness
irredeemably
irredeemed
irredenta
irredential
Irredentism
Irredentist
irredentists
irredressibility
irredressible
irredressibly
irreducibility
irreducibilities
irreducible
irreducibleness
irreducibly
irreductibility
irreductible
irreduction
irreferable
irreflection
irreflective
irreflectively
irreflectiveness
irreflexive
irreformability
irreformable
irrefragability
irrefragable
irrefragableness
irrefragably
irrefrangibility
irrefrangible
irrefrangibleness
irrefrangibly
irrefusable
irrefutability
irrefutable
irrefutableness
irrefutably
irreg
irreg.
irregardless
irregeneracy
irregenerate
irregeneration
irregular
irregularism
irregularist
irregularity
irregularities
irregularize
irregularly
irregularness
irregulars
irregulate
irregulated
irregulation
irregulous
irrejectable
irrelapsable
irrelate
irrelated
irrelation
irrelative
irrelatively
irrelativeness
irrelevance
irrelevances
irrelevancy
irrelevancies
irrelevant
irrelevantly
irreliability
irrelievable
irreligion
irreligionism
irreligionist
irreligionize
irreligiosity
irreligious
irreligiously
irreligiousness
irreluctant
irremeable
irremeably
irremediable
irremediableness
irremediably
irremediless
irrememberable
irremissibility
irremissible
irremissibleness
irremissibly
irremission
irremissive
irremittable
irremovability
irremovable
irremovableness
irremovably
irremunerable
irrenderable
irrenewable
irrenowned
irrenunciable
irrepair
irrepairable
irreparability
irreparable
irreparableness
irreparably
irrepassable
irrepatriable
irrepealability
irrepealable
irrepealableness
irrepealably
irrepentance
irrepentant
irrepentantly
irrepetant
irreplacable
irreplacably
irreplaceability
irreplaceable
irreplaceableness
irreplaceably
irrepleviable
irreplevisable
irreportable
irreprehensibility
irreprehensible
irreprehensibleness
irreprehensibly
irrepresentable
irrepresentableness
irrepressibility
irrepressible
irrepressibleness
irrepressibly
irrepressive
irreproachability
irreproachable
irreproachableness
irreproachably
irreproducibility
irreproducible
irreproductive
irreprovable
irreprovableness
irreprovably
irreption
irreptitious
irrepublican
irreputable
irresilience
irresiliency
irresilient
irresistable
irresistably
irresistance
irresistibility
irresistible
irresistibleness
irresistibly
irresistless
irresolubility
irresoluble
irresolubleness
irresolute
irresolutely
irresoluteness
irresolution
irresolutions
irresolvability
irresolvable
irresolvableness
irresolved
irresolvedly
irresonance
irresonant
irrespectability
irrespectable
irrespectful
irrespective
irrespectively
irrespirable
irrespondence
irresponsibility
irresponsibilities
irresponsible
irresponsibleness
irresponsibly
irresponsive
irresponsiveness
irrestrainable
irrestrainably
irrestrictive
irresultive
irresuscitable
irresuscitably
irretention
irretentive
irretentiveness
irreticence
irreticent
irretraceable
irretraceably
irretractable
irretractile
irretrievability
irretrievable
irretrievableness
irretrievably
irreturnable
irrevealable
irrevealably
irreverence
irreverences
irreverend
irreverendly
irreverent
irreverential
irreverentialism
irreverentially
irreverently
irreversibility
irreversible
irreversibleness
irreversibly
irrevertible
irreviewable
irrevisable
irrevocability
irrevocable
irrevocableness
irrevocably
irrevoluble
irrhation
irride
irridenta
irrigable
irrigably
irrigant
irrigate
irrigated
irrigates
irrigating
irrigation
irrigational
irrigationist
irrigations
irrigative
irrigator
irrigatory
irrigatorial
irrigators
Irrigon
irriguous
irriguousness
irrisible
irrision
irrisor
irrisory
Irrisoridae
irritability
irritabilities
irritable
irritableness
irritably
irritament
irritancy
irritancies
irritant
irritants
irritate
irritated
irritatedly
irritates
irritating
irritatingly
irritation
irritation-proof
irritations
irritative
irritativeness
irritator
irritatory
irrite
Irritila
irritomotile
irritomotility
irrogate
irrorate